AP880314-0322 	X	Stock prices showed no clear trend Monday in the quietest trading of the year as traders looked ahead to a potentially volatile week. Takeover news and speculation and a late flurry of buying in blue chips provided the highlights of an otherwise uninspired session. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials gained 15.09 to 2,050.07. But declining issues slightly outnumbered advances on the New York Stock Exchange, with 737 up, 794 down and 445 unchanged. Big Board volume came to 131.89 million shares, down from 200.02 million in the previous session, and the lightest total since a 111.58 million-share day Dec. 29. Analy were reluctant to take big positions in advance of the government's report Thursday on the nation's trade balance for January. The trade deficit narrowed in the last two months of 1987, but some analysts expect the sts said tradersJanuary data to show a modest increase in the gap between exports and imports. This week's trade report will come just ahead of a quarterly ``triple witching hour'' involving a group of expiring options and futures on stock indexes. The past few witching hours have been relatively uneventful with the adoption of new procedures designed to spread out the impact of last-minute maneuvering by computer program traders. Nevertheless, analysts say uncertainty aboe index closed at 296.94, up .85.
AP900209-0123 	X	Since 1956, the government has charged Helen Joseph with treason, detained her repeatedly, placed her under house arrest and made it a crime to quote her. But the 84-year-old white anti-apartheid activist survived 34 years of bannings and on Feb. 2 became one of nearly 500 people, living and dead, whose restrictions were lifted by President F.W. de Klerk. ``I didn't think I'd see this day,'' Mrs. Joseph said, adding that she was a bit disappointed the government no longer considered her a threat. ``I'm a stubborn old bag and I wasn't expecting things to change.'' Police restrictions have been a way of life for many anti-apartheid activists. Hundreds detained without charge during the 3{-year-old state of emergency were released but then placed under virtual house arrest. The restrictions varied, but often prohibited the activists from leaving their neighborhoods, required them to be home each night, prevented them from attending meetings or participating in politics, and often made it impossible to hold a job. Zwelakhe Sisulu, son of recently released African National Congress leader Walter Sisulu, was freed from prison in December 1988 after two years in detention. But he had to report daily to police and was unable to resume his job as editor of the New Nation newspaper until de Klerk rescinded his restriction order. Few have endured as much as Mrs. Joseph, a former social worker and union official now confined to a wheelchair much of the time. The government charged Mrs. Joseph, ANC leader Nelson Mandela and more than 150 others with treason in 1956 for their anti-apartheid activities. All were acquitted in a trial that lasted until 1961. However, Mrs. Joseph, a divorcee with no children, remained under a banning order and in 1962 became the first South African placed under house arrest. For the next nine years, police were the only visitors allowed to enter her comfortable white house with a red roof and a flower-filled garden in a Johannesburg suburb. Her house arrest ended in 1971 while she was undergoing a cancer operation, but until Feb. 2 she remained a ``listed'' person, meaning she could not be quoted in South Africa. She has been arrested numerous times, most recently in 1983 when she sang a freedom song and gave a clenched-fist, black power salute while attending a treason trial. As part of his reform program, de Klerk lifted the police orders on 374 people who had been restricted after their release from detention. He also removed the names of all 110 people who had been ``listed'' and could not be quoted. Many of the listed people are either dead or have left South Africa. They include: _Most of the African National Congress leadership, such as President Oliver Tambo, who is recovering from a stroke in Sweden. _Donald Woods, whose book ``Cry Freedom,'' about the life and death of black activist Steve Biko was made into a movie by the same name three years ago. Woods now lives in London. _Numerous whites, including Anne Heymann, who died of pneumonia Feb. 3 at the age of 66, and her husband, Isaac Heymann, who died of cancer four days later at the age of 79. The Heymanns, both listed since the 1960s, lived only a few blocks from Mrs. Joseph and often visited her at her front gate during the years when she wasn't allowed guests inside her home. ``So many people suffered for so many years,'' Mrs. Joseph said. ``I'm not grateful (for the lifting of the restrictions). It was not an act of compassion. It never should have been done in the first place.'' Despite failing health, she occasionally travels to anti-government protests, such as an ANC rally last October in the township of Soweto, where she received a rousing cheer from the mostly black crowd of 70,000. Mrs. Joseph, whose requests to visit Mandela were repeatedly denied, finally was granted permission and the two met last Dec. 21 for the first time in 28 years. ``He looked different after so many years, but then so did I,'' Mrs. Joseph said. ``He was in very good form, full of jokes, full of laughter.'' Four days later, Mrs. Joseph had Christmas dinner with Walter Sisulu and dozens of other activists at the home of a friend. After her house arrest was lifted, she began a tradition of making a toast at noon on Christmas to remember all the anti-apartheid activists who were in exile, in prison or had died. Word of the tradition had spread to exiles and prisoners, and Sisulu told Mrs. Joseph it was observed during his years in jail. She hopes one day all the activists will be able to hold a Christmas toast together in South Africa, but she doubts she'll be around to take part. ``I don't think I'll see the end of apartheid, but I'll see it diminish,'' she said. ``You can't wash away 300 years of cruelty and injustice overnight.''
AP880722-0076 	X	Medal of Honor winner Jake W. Lindsey, whose heroism in World War II and the Korean War earned him the nickname ``one-man army,'' was buried with military honors. Lindsey, who died of a heart attack Monday at age 67 at his home in this southeast Mississippi town, was buried Thursday at Whitehouse Cemetery. Lindsey was the 100th U.S. infantryman to receive the nation's highest military honor. He won 16 medals in all, including four Purple Hearts. He won the medal for an action in late 1944 in the Huertgen Forest near Hamich, Germany. Lindsey, then a 24-year-old technical sergeant, was part of a platoon that had been reduced from six men from 40 in four days of fighting. The platoon captured its objective but faced an enemy counterattack. Although wounded in the knee, Lindsey faced a German infantry company backed by five tanks. He killed at least 20 Germans, knocked out one of the tanks and then, after running out of ammunition, used his bayonet in hand-to-hand combat. ``His unerringly accurate fire destroyed two enemy machine-gun nests, forced the withdrawal of two tanks and effectively halted the enemy flanking patrol,'' according to his citation, read by Gen. George C. Marshall. When Lindsey was presented the medal before a joint session of Congress in 1945, President Harry S. Truman was said to have whispered to him: ``I'd rather have the Congressional Medal of Honor than be the president of the United States.'' During the Korean War, he single-handedly killed 150 Chinese soldiers in one night, said Ron Busby, who is familiar with Lindsey's exploits. Lindsey also taught Special Forces courses in hand-to-hand combat and parachuting. After retiring from the military, he spent 10 years with the U.S. Forest Service. The Isney, Ala., native spent most of his life in Waynesboro. Survivors include his wife, Lucille, two sons, two daughters and a granddaughter.
AP881212-0269 	X	When it comes to shopping, mature consumers prefer the old-fashioned way _ walking around the stores, according to a Baylor University study. The Baylor researchers said the ``gray marketers,'' 55 years or older, like to see what that are buying before they part with their money and thus go to the stores rather than order from mailed catalogs or television or telephone. ``Many of them actually prefer the social aspects of going shopping,'' says Marjorie Caballero, executive director of the Center for Professional Selling at Baylor's Hankamer School of Business, Waco, Texas. ``They like walking the shops and meeting people. Getting out of the house is something they look forward to,'' she says. She conducted the year-long survey with Baylor Professor Lawrence Chonko, chairman of the Marketing Department, and former Baylor faculty member James Lumpkin, now a marketing professor at the University of Mississippi. The study, ``Direct Marketing to the Elderly: Sources of Dissatisfaction and Remedies,'' was funded by the Andrus Foundation of the American Association of Retired Persons. Sixty percent of the more than 4,000 people surveyed were in the 65-plus age category; 20 percent in the 55-64 age group, and 20 percent were adults up to age 54. More than 2,500 responded to the survey. The study also found that the elderly strongly prefer the ``personal touch'' from sales people and dislike ``high pressure'' sales tactics. The survey had some advice for those doing the selling as well. ``Be patient with the elderly,'' Caballero suggested. ``Don't assume because of their age that they cannot understand complex information. They grasp things just like everybody else, but it may take them longer. ``Don't give them too much clutter to wade through. Their eyesight may not be quite as good; use larger type in your printed material, slow down in your approach, simplify, and, above all, never think of the elderly as `senile' or `cranky' in their ways,'' she says. ``They resent these stereotypes.''
AP880518-0188 	X	Two Detroit newspaper reporters and the religion editor of the Grand Rapids Press were among 14 journalists selected for the Michigan Journalism Fellows program at the University of Michigan for 1988-1989. The fellowships, supported by major newspaper and broadcast groups for the past 15 years, are given to journalists to pursue a year of independent study. The fellowships carry a $22,000-a-year stipend plus tuition. The 1988-1989 fellows: _Joan Richardson, 36, deputy business editor of the Detroit Free Press. _Denise Stinson, 34, criminal court reporter for the Detroit News. _Christopher Meehan, 39, religion editor of the Grand Rapids Press. _Fred de Sam Lazaro, 32, producer, KTCA-TV, St. Paul, Minn., and field producer, MacNeil-Lehrer NewsHour. _Robin Fogel, 31, deputy design director, The Philadelphia Inquirer. _Judith Foy, 36, producer, WCVB-TV, Boston. _James Galloway, 33, reporter, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. _John Hall, 40, investigative editor and reporter, The New Haven (Conn.) Register. _Scott Heller, 27, senior writer, Chronicle of Higher Education. _Steven Litt, 32, art and architecture critic, The News and Observer, Raleigh, N.C. _Gregg P. Zachary, 32, technology reporter, The San Jose Mercury News. _Mary Caroline Arguillas, 29, Mindanao correspondent of The Manila Chronicle, The Philippines. _Hyun-Chai Park, 40, foreign news reporter Yonhap News Agency, Seoul, South Korea. _Sussie Sheikh, 32, parliamentary correspondent, Det Fri Aktuelt, Copenhagen.
AP881109-0031 	X	Following his wife's example, Soviet human rights activist Andrei Sakharov underwent a heart examination as part of his first trip to the West. The 67-year-old Nobel Peace Prize winner, who was examined Tuesday, might receive a pacemaker to regulate his heartbeat before returning to Moscow, a family member said. Sakharov suffers from chronic angina, or chest pain. His wife, Yelena Bonner, came to the same hospital, Massachusetts General, for heart bypass surgery in 1986. The hospital said it would not release test results or provide any other medical information for the next 10 to 14 days, at the request of Sakharov's family. His son-in-law, Efrem Yankelevich, says if doctors decide a pacemaker is needed, Sakharov will undergo surgery before returning to the Soviet Union later this month. The physicist is scheduled to fly home Nov. 18, but relatives and colleagues have said his visa is flexible and could be extended. Yankelevich said last week that pacemakers, which are implanted under the skin, are not generally available in the Soviet Union. Though frail, Sakharov has maintained a demanding schedule and appears to be in generally good health. He is believed to have suffered a minor stroke when Soviet authorities force-fed him during a 1985 hunger strike. That fast, which lasted several weeks, prompted the Soviet authorities to allow his wife to come to Boston for heart surgery. She had suffered two heart attacks. Sakharov was also weakened by a hunger strike in 1981, said Joshua Rubenstein, an Amnesty International specialist on Soviet dissidents. That 18-day fast forced the Soviets to allow a young woman, Elizaveta Alekseyeva, to emigrate to the United States to marry Sakharov's stepson, Alexei Semyonov. ``But it wasn't just the hunger strikes themselves that caused the damage,'' Rubenstein said. ``It was the psychologcial pressure, the isolation, being force-fed, the stroke. Being force-fed is a form of torture, after all.'' Sakharov has commented little on his physical condition. Asked at a news conference Monday about his health, he said only that ``it hasn't changed either way'' recently. On Friday, he is scheduled to travel to New York City for a luncheon given by the Union of Concerned Scientists. From New York, he plans to go to Washington for a board meeting of the International Foundation for the Survival and Development of Humanity, of which he is a director. On Monday, Sakharov plans to visit President Reagan at the White House. In two public appearances since his arrival four days ago, Sakharov has called attention to Soviet political prisoners and warned that perestroika, the restructuring of his country's political and economic system, faces a grave threat from new laws restricting demonstrations and increasing police powers. Sakharov, who won the 1975 Nobel Peace Prize for championing human rights, was banished to the closed city of Gorky in 1980 for his opposition to Soviet presence in Afghanistan. Sakharov's living conditions during his internal exile were harsh and he frequently carried a 30-pound bag with his possessions, Rubenstein said. In 1986, Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev allowed Sakharov to return to Moscow.
AP900509-0221 	X	``Deep'' (RCA-BMG) _ Peter Murphy The ``deep'' of former Bauhaus singer Peter Murphy's fourth solo project could refer to his unfathomable lyrics, but Murphy has said the title reflects both how he feels about his work _ deeply _ and his perception of the music, which he calls ``deep rock.'' It sounds more like doomsday disco. Murphy's old outfit, a post-punk British band with artistic pretensions, was among the first to mix infectious dance grooves with brooding, introspective lyrics. The style lives on in this recording and in records by The Cure, The The and others favored by masses of black-garbed club hoppers. ``Cuts You Up,'' a single from ``Deep,'' is a hit in dance clubs and on college radio, and its hook is undeniable. But it is difficult to imagine the self-absorbed Murphy finding a broader audience with songs this obtuse. _ By David Dishneau, Associated Press Writer.
AP900622-0085 	X	State high-school teachers have voted to boycott university entrance exams, endangering the chances of thousands of students who have applied to enter universities in Greece and abroad. The Federation of Higher Education Personnel, which represents nearly 60,000 high-school teachers nationwide, overwhelmingly voted Thursday to continue a strike over pay and conditions. ``We will stage 24-hour strikes whenever the government reschedules the exams,'' said one union official, who refused to be identified. The exams conducted by the state high-school teachers were originally set for June 14. The teachers want $107 more a month in pay and a reduction in the number of hours they must teach each week. High-school teachers receive a starting salary of about $476 a month, which can rise to $833 a month. They must teach 21 hours each week and want that cut to 18 hours a week.
AP900719-0014 	X	President Bush's decision to end recognition of rebels battling Cambodia's Vietnamese-backed government _ and open talks with Vietnam instead _ is being welcomed in Congress, but some lawmakers say it doesn't go far enough. ``U.S. policy requires overhaul and intensive effort, not tinkering and fleeting attention,'' Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, D-Maine, said Wednesday. He called past policy ``a dismal failure.'' Sen. David Boren, D-Okla., chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, called for an end to covert U.S. aid to Cambodia's rebel coalition. Secretary of State James A. Baker III announced Wednesday in Paris that the United States would withdraw its support for the three-party coalition that is fighting the Vietnamese-installed Phnom Penh government. That coalition includes the Khmer Rouge, which was responsible for more than 1 million deaths during its reign in Cambodia in the 1970s. Baker also said the United States would begin a dialogue with Vietnam about the need for a political solution to Cambodia's civil war, and would allow U.S.-sponsored humanitarian programs _ including $5 million in aid for children _ to go forward inside Cambodia. The moves were seen as adjustments to a new reality in Cambodia, where a potential takeover by the brutal Khmer Rouge has become a larger worry than fears of encroachment by neighboring communist Vietnam. But in a letter to Mitchell, Baker also said ``it is more important than ever to provide U.S. materiel support for the non-communist resistance, who should not be undercut just as they seek to provide the only non-communist alternative in free elections.'' The United States now provides $7 million openly to the resistance for non-lethal supplies and an additional $13 million a year in covert military aid for the coalition, according to intelligence sources. Both payments are under attack in Congress, because while the aid ostensibly supports the coalition faction of Prince Norodom Sihanouk, critics say it at least indirectly helps the Khmer Rouge, which is the country's strongest military force. Several opponents of U.S. policy said continuing the aid was inconsistent with other moves by the administration. ``The administration has eliminated the rationale for their policy of support for the non-communist resistance, but on the other hand has increased its resolve to provide assistance. That's a contradiction,'' said Rep. Chester Atkins, D-Mass. Citing reports that the Khmer Rouge is gaining ground on the battlefield, Mitchell said: ``There is simply no excuse to delay additional action'' that would go beyond Baker's announcement. Among actions Mitchell sought was direct U.S. talks with the Phnom Penh government of Hun Sen, rather than his Vietnamese sponsors in Hanoi, who are in turn supported by the Soviet Union. And he said Bush should be more willing to apply pressure to China, the chief supporter of the Khmer Rouge, and to do so publicly. ``The Chinese leadership must be made to understand that it stands entirely alone in support of genocidal forces,'' he said. Boren did not directly refer to the covert military aid program that goes through his Intelligence Committee, but he said that all U.S. support for the resistance should be handled openly. ``Any future debate on our policy toward Cambodia should be in the Foreign Relations Committee, not in the Intelligence Committee,'' which meets behind closed doors, Boren said. The intelligence panel voted June 28 to cut off the covert aid program beginning Oct. 1. Boren said he assumed the policy shift is ``a signal that the administration would no longer be seeking any aid that could be even indirectly helpful to the Khmer Rouge.'' That will require the administration to shift its budget request to support humanitarian programs and democracy-building moves, he said. Under U.S. pressure, the United Nations has awarded a seat to the Cambodian resistance coalition and denied formal recognition to Hun Sen. Baker said the United States also was changing its policy toward the Cambodian U.N. seat.
AP901015-0002 	X	The third game of the world chess showdown was adjourned Monday night after five hours, with neither world champion Garry Kasparov or challenger Anatoly Karpov clearly in control. The first game was a draw and Kasparov won the second game. Play was halted just after 10:30 p.m. when Kasparov wrote down his 41st move and sealed it in an envelope. The game was set to resume Tuesday at 5:30 p.m. when the match arbiter will open the envelope. Spectators said the players were in an unclear position. ``There are chances for both sides and I predict a draw,'' said Dmitri Gurevich, a grand master from Chicago. ``I think the position is better for black (Kasparov), but white (Karpov) has good chances of surviving and getting a draw,'' said international master Vitaly Zaltsman of Brooklyn. In the adjourned position, white has a king, rook, bishop, knight and four pawns. Black has a king, two bishops, a knight and five pawns. ``The adjourned position is a complete mess. Nobody knows what's happening,'' said Joel Benjamin, a grand master from Manhattan. Kasparov, 27, the highest-rated player in the history of chess, leads 1{ points to { points in the 24-game title match against Karpov, 39, the former world champion he unseated in 1985. Karpov played with the white pieces in Game 3, which originally was to be played Friday. Observers said they weren't surprised when Karpov - an introverted, methodical, player - postponed it until Monday: confidence is an important factor in this game of psychological warfare. The arch-rivals have played more than 120 games with each other. The majority of them, like Game 1 of this match, were draws. Kasparov dominated Game 2 thoroughly. In the third game, Kasparov, playing the black pieces, repeated his choice of opening from the first game - the King's Indian Defense. But Karpov, with his fifth and sixth moves, adopted a different system, known as the Classical Variation. Karpov used 1{ hours to play his first 15 moves. Kasparov used 21 minutes for his first 14 moves, then thought 41 minutes about move 15 - a quiet knight retreat. Karpov then decided to accept Kasparov's offer of the queen. But Kasparov's 23rd move trapped Karpov's queen, and forced an endgame in which Karpov had an extra rook but Kasparov had an extra bishop and two pawns that appeared very dangerous. Former Soviet dissident Nathan Sharansky, who is regarded as a strong amateur player, was in the press room analyzing the third game.
AP880719-0188 	X	U.S officials are in East Germany inspecting nuclear missile sites in compliance with the superpowers' Intermediate Nuclear Forces treaty, the state-run news agency ADN said Tuesday. ADN, in a brief report, said that two U.S. inspection teams arrived in East Germany on Monday. One team began checking a missile site near the town of Waren, about 70 miles north of Berlin the same day. The East German news agency also said the other U.S. inspection team started checking a second site Tuesday at Koenigsbrueck, about 15 miles north of Dresden. According to ADN, the Soviets maintained missiles at the sites until February, when they decided to remove them early to set a positive example in nuclear disarmament. The inspections in East Germany come as two teams of Soviet inspectors checked nuclear missile sites in Britain, which also fall under the INF agreement. Soviet teams have already conducted inspections at missile sites in West Germany and the United States this month, at the same time U.S. inspection teams began deploying to Warsaw Pact locations. The inspections fall under the terms of the INF treaty signed in Washington last Dec. 8 by Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev and President Reagan. The treaty provides for the elimination within three years of all nuclear missiles with ranges from 340 miles to 3,000 miles.
AP880615-0142 	X	Italy's highest criminal court ruled that Swiss businessman Walter Demuth can be extradited to the United States, where he is wanted on arms trafficking charges, his lawyer said Wednesday. Following the ruling by the Court of Cassation last week, Demuth's lawyer, Aldo Perla, said he did not know when the businessman will be extradited. U.S. judicial authorities in New York issued a warrant for Demuth in 1986 charging him with illegal commerce of military materials and defrauding the American government. He was arrested in Italy in September. Demuth, 63, was head of a Swiss company, Helitrade AG, that deals in arms and civilian aircraft. Last year, the Swiss newspaper SonntagsBlick linked Demuth to arms dealing with Iran. The paper said Helitrade tried to ship 1,250 TOW anti-tank missiles falsely described as forklifts to Tehran for $7.5 million. Demuth was quoted as saying that the deal was never completed.
AP881020-0059 	X	A security guard who police once made a mascot has been charged with setting a spectacular waterfront blaze that caused about $10 million in damage, authorities said. Claude Douglas Melcher, 22, also was being questioned in a $20 million, nine-alarm fire two years ago that burned for several days and displaced hundreds of residents, police said. ``There are a lot of other fires we intend to question him about,'' said Sgt. Richard J. Ellwood. Melcher, who according to today's editions of The Sun often carried a plastic gun in a police holster and a police-fire radio scanner, was held on $100,000 bond Wednesday night after his arrest a day earlier. According to the newspaper, police and firefighters said he had visited station houses for 12 years and often ran errands for officers, who made him a mascot and outfitted him with shirts, trousers, even a night stick. A firefighter quoted by The Sun without identification recalled Melcher frequently arriving on the scene of fires before he got there. ``He would beat us there, and then he would want to help with the firehose or something,'' the firefighter said. Five firefighters suffered minor injuries battling the $10 million, seven-alarm blaze in the city's Fells Point section April 13. It began behind a building at Autoline Lubricants Inc., then spread to a shack at Allied Chemical Corp. Melcher returned to a fire station after the fire and talked with firefighters about it, fire officials said. The $20 million blaze destroyed a warehouse, three houses and damaged up to 120 homes and businesses on Nov. 4, 1986. Melcher was arrested after investigators questioned him about an Oct. 12 fire that caused $800,000 in damage at a building under construction at the Francis Scott Key Medical Center, where he is a security guard.
AP880429-0004 	X	Air Force officials announced plans Thursday to increase unmanned launches at this coastal base, after reaffirming a decision to put its space shuttle facilities in mothballs. Col. Sebastian Colitore said at the 25th Annual Space Congress convention Thursday in Cocoa Beach, Fla., that the Air Force would build one new launch pad and modify another at the base to launch the Titan 4 missile. His statement came a day after Maj. Gen. Donald Cromer, chief of the Space and Missile Test Organization at Vandenberg, reaffirmed a February announcement that the $3.5 billion shuttle launch facility at Vandenberg was being placed in mothballs because of federal budget cuts. Cromer said the move would save the Air Force $40 million in 1989. The Air Force plans to use the shuttle pad to launch other, unmanned missles, Maj. Sgt. Bruce Zielsdorf, a Vandenberg spokesman, said Thursday. The Titan 4, the military's workhorse missile, carries huge, shuttle-sized payloads and satellites into orbit. The first planned launch of the Titan 4, which is 20 feet taller than the shuttle at 204 feet, is set for February 1990, Colitore said. The Air Force also will modify another launch pad for old Titan 2 intercontinental missiles that are being refurbished into space boosters, said Lt. Col. Mike Callaway, project manager. The first launch of the Titan 2 is set for July 1 at Vandenberg, he said. Colitore said the Air Force would increase its unmanned launches at Vandenberg, 150 miles northwest of Los Angeles on the California coast. The Vandenberg shuttle site has been regularly maintained at a cost of $50 million a year since the space shuttle Challenger exploded during launch in Florida in January 1986, killing the seven people aboard. It was to be the next site of a shuttle launch in July 1986. But after the Challenger disaster, NASA moved the launch back to 1992. Now launches have been indefinitely postponed at Vandenberg, although an August shuttle launch is planned at Cape Canaveral in Florida. Even if Vandenberg's vast shuttle complex, which includes a launch pad, buildings and runway, were to be reactivated, it would take at least four years for it to be functional, Zielsdorf said.
AP880528-0071 	X	Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini today asked Iran's parliament to do more for the nation's poor after legislative elections that boosted radicals seeking economic reform. Iran's leader also renewed his declarations that the 7{-year-old Persian Gulf war with Iraq would be settled on the battlefield, not at the negotiating table. He made his remarks in an inaugural message read to the 270-member Majlis, or parliament, by his son and aide, Ahmed. Earlier, President Ali Khamenei acknowledged that Iraq won victories recently in the ground war but said they would not affect final outcome of the conflict. The 87-year-old Khomeini, who was reported to be ill, asked the Majlis to ``simplify'' Iran's complicated government system. ``I hope that by close cooperation between the Majlis, the Council of Guardians and other experts, the problems of the deprived can be solved,'' he said in the message read by his son and carried by Tehran radio. Laws are submitted to the Council of Guardians after they pass through parliament. In Iran, ``deprived'' is a codeword for urban and rural poor. They were a major force in the revolution that overthrew Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi in 1979. Khomeini has increasingly come down on the side of the radicals. They favor price controls, a minimum wage, land redistribution and other measures to help deal with runaway inflation and economic inequities. They are opposed by conservative believers in private property, many of whom are clerics or merchants and whose views are heavily represented in the Council of Guardians. The parliament was elected in two rounds of balloting in April and earlier this month. The exact breakdown of power blocs was not yet known, but based on announced results the radicals clearly gained influence. The new, four-year parliament is the third since the revolution. Referring to Iran's armed forces, Khomeini said in his message: ``The combatants must continue their fight by depending on their faith in God and their weapons,'' he said. ``The fate of the war will be decided on the war fronts, not through negotiations.'' The official Islamic Republic News Agency reported that the president, Khamenei, also addressed the inaugural session and told the deputies they must work for social justice. Tehran radio earlier said Khamenei told worshipers in a prayer sermon Friday on the campus of Tehran University that ``war has a two-sided aspect.'' ``You will not find, in any of the wars in the world which last a long time, one side always winning and the other always losing. If one side constantly wins and the other constantly loses, the war will not last. It will be over,'' he was quoted as saying. The remarks followed two major battlefield defeats for Iran: the recapture by Iraq of the southern Faw peninsula April 18, and of a chunk of Iraqi territory east of the port city of Basra on Wednesday. Khamenei said, Iraq ``has had one or two victories and successes. These successes of the enemy are not beyond our expectation.'' The language used by the Iranian president to concede the defeats was unusually blunt, reflecting the scale of the reverses suffered by Iran since mid-May. In addition to the defeats in the ground war, U.S. forces on April 18 destroyed Iranian offshore platforms, sank a patrol boat and crippled two frigates in a series of clashes in the Persian Gulf. Iran's state-run media already had conceded that Iranian forces withdrew from some of their positions east of Basra. And after the Faw battle, it indirectly admitted setbacks by accusing United States forces of intervening on Iraq's side. But Khamenei assured his audience that Iran would prevail. ``We have no doubt that the nation which will have the last word and which will inflict the last blow is this same heroic and martyr-nurturing nation which, in the course of these years, has not for a moment felt a sense of weakness in confronting the big powers,'' he said. ``The great movement by the people towards final objectives and final victory has been charted by the imam (Khomeini) and the people are willingly and diligently following this path.'' Western military and political analysts have said it is too early to tell whether the string of defeats will represent a turning point in the war. But they say the setbacks have badly jolted the Tehran leadership at a time of growing economic woes and a power struggle between radicals who want a state-run economy and conservatives who back private property rights.
AP901104-0039 	X	Troops wounded dozens of Palestinians Sunday and ordered curfews across the Gaza Strip. Government leaders dismissed as ``one-sided'' a U.N. call for international protection of Arabs under Israeli occupation. Israel radio said 86 Palestinians were injured in widespread clashes following the death of a jailed Palestinian, while Arab reports said 70 were hurt. The army put the number at 27 and said it was checking the other figures. A Foreign Ministry statement castigated U.N. Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar for his report Thursday in which he suggested broadening the mandate of U.N. institutions in Israel to safeguard the 1.7 million Palestinians under occupation. The report was produced as a recommendation to the U.N. Security Council on response to the killing Oct. 8 of 20 Palestinians on Jersusalem's Temple Mount by Israeli authorities. ``The world community's continued preoccupation with this subject can only serve those forces who are interested in creating a link between the Arab-Israeli conflict and the gulf crisis,'' the statement said. The statement assailed a proposal to convene the signatories of the Fourth Geneva Convention of 1949, which sets out rules for the treatment of civilians in wartime. ``Israel is disappointed at the one-sided approach exhibited in the report,'' it said. ``The recommendations in the report are directed only toward Israel and do not see fit to call for a cessation of violence on the Palestinian side.'' Israel has refused to accept a U.N. investigation into the Oct. 8 incident on Temple Mount, a site holy to both Jews and Moslems. Israel says the inquiry would undermine its sovereignty in Jerusalem. Israel had conducted its own investigation and ``extracted the necessary lessons,'' it said. A government-appointed panel defended the action by police, saying they faced a threat to their lives. But it also said top officers failed to adequately supervise riot-control troops. Under the panel's recommendation, the Cabinet set up a permanent seven-member ministerial committee to oversee Temple Mount affairs. Police Minister Roni Milo upgraded Jerusalem to a full police district Sunday, acting on the commission's recommendations. Milo did not say if senior officers would be transferred or fired. About 350 officers will be added to Jerusalem's 1,000-member force and the public will be encouraged to volunteer for the Civil Guard, said police spokeswoman Ruth Shlezinger. In the Gaza Strip, extensive curfews were imposed and the area of 750,000 residents was declared a military zone and was closed to reporters. Arab reports said at least 180 people were injured during the weekend violence, started with rumors that a Palestinian inmate was killed by Israeli troops. Israeli authorities say the man hanged himself in his cell. In some sections of Gaza City, streets were littered with stones and scorched remains of burning tires. Masked youths in the city's Nasser Quarter fired rocks with slingshots at soldiers checking identification papers on a street. Arsonists gutted the town hall of Khan Yunis in Gaza, Arab reports said. Gaza police were not immediately available for comment. A senior aide of Palestine Liberation Organization chief Yasser Arafat claimed two girls' schools with hundreds of pupils in the Gaza Strip were hit by gas bombs fired by Israeli troops. Bassam Abu Sharif also said in a statement that dozens of other Arabs were wounded when Israeli troops opend fired on a Khan Yunis hospital and a number of clinics in the area run by the U.N. Relief and Works Agency. The statement was sent to The Associated Press in Nicosia, Cyprus, from PLO headquarters in Tunis, Tunisia. Israel captured the West Bank, Gaza Strip and Arab east Jerusalem in the 1967 Middle East war and later annexed east Jerusalem.
AP900605-0051 	X	The U.S. military is offering to evacuate the families of American servicemen at government expense following the recent slayings of Americans and rebel threats of more attacks. A military spokesman said today that U.S. service personnel have until Thursday to tell officials whether they want their families sent home. ``We have asked those who have families to tell us when they would like to ship their dependents back before their tour ends,'' said Lt. Col. Ronald Rand, spokesman for Clark Air Base, 50 miles north of Manila. Rand did not say what would happen if service members decided later to return their dependents. Adm. Huntington Hardisty, commander of U.S. forces in the Pacific, authorized a program which allows a serviceman at any of the six U.S. bases in the Philippines to send members of his family home at government expense before his tour of duty ends, Rand said. Rand said a U.S. government-sponsored transfer of dependents of U.S. servicemen is usually done when only on exceptional cases, such as illness. But he said a large number of requests and letters of concern about their families forced them to adopt the program. A total of 40,000 Americans _ servicemen, civilian workers and dependents _ are stationed at Clark, Subic and four other American bases in the Philippines. At Clark alone, there are over 10,000 dependents, Rand said. Last month, Communist rebels killed two American airmen near Clark and vowed more attacks until all U.S. troops leave the country. Rebels also are suspected in the May 4 shooting death of a Marine sergeant near Subic. At least eight Americans have been slain in political attacks since April 1989. Six of the victims were servicemen or associated with the military. Another American serviceman was killed Saturday night, but American and Filipino officials said robbery _ not politics _ was the motive this time. Since Friday, U.S. Defense Department civilians and military dependents who live on Clark have been barred from leaving the base because of Communist threats. Those living off-base have been ordered to limit travel to essential business. Rand said the restrictions would last for at least two months depending on U.S. assessment of the threat. The New People's Army, the military wing of the outlawed Communist Party of the Philippines, has waged a 21-year-old insurgency to establish a Marxist state.
AP880509-0216 	X	AP901011-0058 	X	The Missouri Knights of the Ku Klux Klan must stop playing racist telephone recordings that imitate the ``Mister Rogers'' children's television show, a federal judge has ruled. U.S. District Judge Howard F. Sachs on Wednesday also ordered the Klan and three of its alleged members to turn over tape recordings and other materials that lawyers for the program say infringe on its trademarks and copyrights. Sachs issued the temporary restraining order one day after Fred M. Rogers and his Family Communications Inc. sued to stop the Klan's use of the recording. The message imitates the sound effects and song of the ``Mister Rogers'' television show and Rogers' voice and speech patterns. ``The messages are of racism, white supremacy and bigotry - the antithesis of everything Rogers and Family Communications Inc. stand for,'' said Cynthia E. Kernick, a lawyer for Rogers from Pittsburgh. A group of civil rights, community and religious leaders complained last week that the number for a telephone in Independence that played the racist message had been circulated among elementary and middle school students in the metropolitan area. The same phone number was used earlier this year to promote the philosophy of the Missouri Knights of the Klan. The lawsuit names the Klan and Adam Troy Mercer of Independence; Michael Brooks, also known as M.B. Madison, of Kansas City; and Edward E. Stephens, also of Kansas City. Attempts to reach Mercer, Madison and Stephens were unsuccessful. The judge set a hearing on a preliminary injunction for Oct. 20. Sachs declined to issue a civil search warrant allowing U.S. marshals to search for the tapes at the defendants' residences.
AP880421-0250 	X	A federal program to severely restrict pesticide use in the forests and farm lands where endangered species roam may itself be endangered because of a lack of federal dollars. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency opened a 90-day public comment period March 9 on a plan to enforce the Endangered Species Act in areas where pesticide use overlaps with the habitat of endangered species. Remaining hearings are scheduled for April 28 in Kansas City, Mo., May 3 in Sacramento, and May 6 in Phoenix, Ariz. The 1973 Endangered Species Act requires all federal agencies to ensure their activities or those they monitor do not harm critical wildlife habitat. The EPA's problem, according to several officials close to the agency's program, is that it doesn't have the funds to monitor and enforce pesticide restrictions. ``We don't have the money,'' EPA spokesman Al Heier said in a telephone interview from Washington, D.C. ``We're hoping in the meantime that where there are endangered species that people would voluntarily protect them where that's possible.'' ``Most of the farmers would try to comply,'' said Merlin Fagan of the California Farm Bureau. ``But if one would look at the thousands of dollars it could cost, we might be asking a lot.'' Fagan said the presticide program ``is a joke'' without the money to monitor pesticide use and verify the presence of endangered wildlife. Jay Feldman of the National Coalition Against the Misuse of Pesticides contends the EPA is claiming empty coffers to avoid taking action that would affect farmers. ``I think hidden behind the excuse of money is a real reluctance on the part of the EPA to regulate pesticides that are seen to have a impact on agricultural production,'' he said. ``It's a lack of decisive action that plagues the agency, not a lack of resources.'' One example of an animal's potential impact on agriculture is the San Joaquin kit fox. This endangered creature roams 340,000 prime acres in Fresno County, an area with crops valued at $58.4 million that could be ruled off-limits to pesticides. The push to protect wildlife stems from a 1986 EPA internal report that slammed the agency for failing to implement the Endangered Species Act. The report included hundreds of complaints filed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service alleging the EPA had neglected to protect wildlife where pesticides are used, according to Laurie Mott of the Natural Resources Defense Council in San Francisco. Asked about the report, Heier said, ``What it said was that we were not implementing the Endangered Species Act for old pesticides.'' The report, coupled with criticism from environmentalists, prompted the EPA to propose strict regulation, within specific habitats, of any pesticide registered before 1978, Heier said. Pesticides registered after 1978, when new rules required more complete chemical information, comply with the law, he said. Angry farmers last fall forced a delay of the program's scheduled February start because the EPA's maps of rare plants and animal habitat were inaccurate. Fish and Wildlife Service director Frank Dunkle wrote last October that enforcing the program based on bad maps could ``develop a backlash among pesticide users.'' The EPA plan affects 900 counties nationwide. Pesticide labels would list specific counties where chemicals could threaten endangered species. Growers then would obtain a map to determine restrictions on the chemicals' use. Violations of the law can be punishable by fines of up to $20,000 and one-year prison terms. Last year's plan proposed restrictions on: _ 24 chemicals for forestry use, affecting 58 plant and animal species. _ 9 mosquito larvacides affecting 78 species. _ 29 pesticides for use on rangeland affecting 182 species. _ 64 chemicals for croplands affecting 45 species. County agricultural commissioners would be a farmer's main source for chemical restriction information, said James Wells, chief of the California Food and Agriculture Department's pesticide enforcement unit. As for money to implement and enforce this vast program on the local level, Wells said, ``That's one of the problems. Nobody in EPA has said anything about money. In fact, they said there is no money.'' Without federal funds, Wells speculated the state of California would have to absorb the program's cost. The state would have to help with mapping and enforcement or divert federal funds now used for other programs. Heier said it would probably take two years before the program gets into full swing.
AP880329-0209 	X	The pro-apartheid Conservative Party extended its series of recent political victories by winning a special election Tuesday to fill a vacant seat in Parliament's white House of Assembly. Conservative candidate Corne Mulder received 8,437 votes to 4,726 for Boy Geldenhuys of the governing National Party in the balloting in rural Randfontein district. The seat became vacant Jan. 13 when Mulder's father, Connie Mulder, died of heart and kidney failure. The elder Mulder had captured the seat for the Conservatives in the national whites-only election last May. Tuesday's lopsided vote was a further indication of the Conservative Party's growing support, especially among rural whites. President P.W. Botha's National Party holds 133 seats in the whites' 178-seat House of Assembly, Conservatives 23 and the anti-apartheid Progressive Federal Party 17 with five seats held by minor parties or independents. There are three separate chambers in the white-dominated Parliament, with the mixed-race chamber having 78 seats and the Asian chamber 45. By law and custom, apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. The 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services. The Conservatives won two special parliamentary elections on March 2 in rural white districts similar to Randfontein, which is 50 miles west of Johannesburg. In the national elections in May the Conservatives won 26 percent of the votes and they are expected to gain ground on the National Party in nationwide municipal elections in October. The National Party has governed South Africa since 1948. The Conservatives oppose all concessions to the black majority and say Botha is capitulating to blacks and international pressure. Botha's party has said it seeks gradual race reform that eventually would give blacks a say in national politics, but with the whites maintaining ultimate control. The Progressive Federal Party has been losing support in recent years and did not enter a candidate in Tuesday's election.
AP880401-0203 	X	S-CHARL, Switzerland (AP) _ An avalanche engulfed a Dutch skiing party on San Lorenzo mountain Friday, killing five people and injuring a sixth in the deadliest snowslide in the Swiss Alps in three years, police said. The deaths brought the skiing season's avalanche toll in Switzerland to 19. The snowslide occurred at noontime and swept seven Dutch skiers and a local mountain guide down the slope. The guide and one tourist freed themselves and alerted rescue helicopters by a walkie-talkie radio, police reported. Search teams assisted by dogs recovered five bodies and rescued an injured woman who was flown to a Zurich hospital. The skiers were at the 8,600-foot level of the nearly 10,000-foot mountain when they were struck by the avalanche. The Swiss Avalanche Research Institute on Friday had warned of moderate snowslide danger above 6,600 feet. Police did not release the names of the victims, but said the Dutch group came to S-charl on Sunday for a week of ski touring. It was the deadliest avalanche in Switzerland since 11 people were killed near Zermatt in March 1985.
AP900829-0136 	X	The aircraft carrier used to train the Navy's sailors and pilots _ the USS Lexington _ will be decomissioned in mid-1991, the Navy announced Wednesday. The USS Forrestal, which is homeported in Mayport, Fla., has been named to replace the Lexington as the service's training carrier. The Lexington was the site of a major accident last fall, when a jet pilot making his first landing crashed into the deck, killing himself and four others. In a statement issued at the Pentagon, the Navy said it had opted to retire the 47-year-old carrier rather than perform an overhaul to extend its service life. Since 1962, the Lexington has been used to qualify thousands of naval aviators, and it has recorded more than 490,000 aircraft landings on its flight deck. The Lexington was launched in 1942. During World War II, its crew destroyed more than 1,000 enemy planes and sank 300,000 tons of shipping, earning it the nickname ``The Blue Ghost'' and the reputation that it couldn't be sunk.
AP881211-0052 	X	Patrols watched for new fires Sunday following the devastation of three Southern California neighborhoods struck by wind-driven firestorms that destroyed 37 homes and charred thousands of acres of brush. Firefighters warned that until rain comes to the dry mountains that ring the Los Angeles Basin, a return of strong winds from the deserts further inland could bring a replay of fast-moving fires. ``We still have a red flag alert,'' said Roger Millan, a spokesman for the Los Angeles County Fire Department. ``We have people on standby. Patrols are out looking for brush fires.'' A brush fire that did an estimated $4.3 million damage in the fashionable hillside suburb of Porter Ranch Friday morning was finally put out Saturday, Millan said. Firefighters combed the burned-over area for hot spots Sunday, he said. Fourteen houses and a mobile home were leveled, 25 other houses were damaged and 3,200 acres of brush was charred, but there were no injuries. Residents described fleeing through a rain of fire, as wind estimated at 60 mph or more drove flames and embers into their neighborhood of $300,000-plus homes on the edge of the San Fernando Valley suburbs. Investigators trying to determine the cause of the fire sought two men seen in a park near the point of origin before dawn Friday, Millan said. The men were being sought as witnesses not suspects, Millan said. The Santa Ana winds, as they are known here, pick up speed as they funnel through canyons in the mountains around Southern California, heat by compression, dry the brush further and can spread the smallest fire into an inferno. The winds, which sweep Southern California sporadically every fall and winter, were blamed for the disastrous spread of two other Los Angeles area fires last week. A total of 22 homes in La Verne, and Baldwin Park, both to the east of downtown, were destroyed Thursday. In La Verne, a brush fire spread into a bedroom community; in Baldwin Park, a blaze at a paper recycling plant raged through a neighborhood of modest houses.
AP900821-0013 	X	Residents of the Florida Keys are fed up with Bausch and Lomb's monkey business. The vision-care giant put thousands of monkeys on two small, deserted islands more than a decade ago to breed, offering a steady supply of laboratory animals to biomedical researchers. But people who live near the islands where the rhesus monkeys have been allowed to run free, fouling the water and turning lush mangrove trees into useless skeletons, object to what they deem needless environmental destruction. ``It looks like a war zone right now. Just like Vietnam,'' said James McElroy, who's part of a grass-roots anti-monkey campaign. The rhesus monkeys have been good business since they were first brought over from India 18 years ago. Handlers regularly dispense monkey chow and capture more than a thousand each year, generating more than $1.5 million in annual sales. The breeding colonies became more important to U.S. researchers after India, Pakistan and Bangladesh banned monkey exports in the late 1970s, said Dr. Joseph Held, vice president for primate research at Charles River Laboratories, the division of Bausch and Lomb that runs the islands. And because they are untainted by Herpes B virus and other infections from the outside world, they are much more valuable than other primates destined for the nation's laboratories, Held said. ``It's the cleanest, healthiest commercial production colony in the world,'' Held said. Most of the animals are sold to labs doing advanced neurological research; none are used for eye-care tests, the company says. More than 1,900 breeding animals and several thousand of their offspring roam on 300 acres of partially submerged wetlands on Key Lois and Raccoon Key, another company-owned island several miles away. Even Charles River Laboratories, which is under a consent agreement to replace damaged trees and reduce the population, agrees that the monkeys have made a mess of things. The rhesus stripped the leaves from thousands of red mangroves, a protected species, and now struggle to find shade in the Florida sun. Their waste has fouled the waters, leaving a band of yellowish-brown algae that chokes out marine life. ``They weren't too noticeable until the vegetation began disappearing. That's when people became alarmed,'' McElroy said. Even armed with the necessary permits from pro-growth Keys officials, humans could never get away with such destruction, said Curt Kruer, a biologist and Audobon Society leader who has studied Keys wetlands for 13 years and can see Key Lois from his backyard. ``You could take all the mangroves destroyed for condo projects in the Keys in the past 10 years and it wouldn't come close to this,'' Kruer said as he poled his boat in for a close look at Key Lois last week. ``Where's it all going to end?'' The state owns everything below the high-water line, including the area where most of the mangroves have been destroyed, and environmental officials ordered the company to clean up those grounds years ago. Charles River Laboratories fenced in and replanted some trees, but disputed the boundary and sued the state in 1986. Nothing much changed until the two sides quietly agreed to a settlement in May that would allow the company to phase out the monkeys over 20-30 years. McElroy, Kruer and other Keys activists raised a ruckus. Gov. Bob Martinez and the Florida Cabinet, eager to improve their environmental image in this election year, responded by scuttling the agreement and deciding to go after Charles River for destroying state property instead. ``They just stripped all the state land and left it bare,'' Martinez said at the June 26 cabinet meeting. ``I'd like to see if we can prosecute.'' Ken Plante, general counsel for the Florida Department of Environmental Resources, says the title dispute must be resolved first. A status hearing has been scheduled for Aug. 30. The department is still trying to find surveyors willing to brave the monkeys and measure the property, Plante said. Meanwhile, the company is quietly scouting out alternative sites where the breeding operation can be moved, said Barbara Kelley, a spokeswoman at Bausch and Lomb's Rochester, N.Y., headquarters.
AP880412-0087 	X	``We will try our utmost to protect our dear ones aboard the plane, but we will not surrender to any blackmail, even if we lose more of them. This is not the decision of Kuwait's government. It is a decision of the people.'' _ Kuwait Foreign Minister Sheik Sabah Al-Ahmed Al-Sabah, about the fate of hostages aboard a hijacked Kuwait Airways jumbo jet, including members of Kuwait's royal family.
AP880927-0255 	X	``Broadcast News'' (CBS-Fox Video; VHS@Beta, $89.98; Rated R) One advantage in seeing ``Broadcast News'' at home is the opportunity to give the film a more satisfying ending than the feeble conclusion reached by director James L. Brooks. Just stop when you've had enough _ at least two good opportunities will arise _ and savor the satisfaction of saving a film in the cutting room. For most of its length, though, ``Broadcast News'' is a witty and often hilarious human comedy set in the high-pressure world of network journalism. This highly praised film inexplicably was snubbed at the Academy Award ceremonies, after winning seven nominations. However, Holly Hunter deservedly won best-actress awards from critics in New York and Los Angeles. Hunter and Albert Brooks play bright, dedicated and tough news professionals who worry about the inroads of fluffy feature stories and blow-dried airheads on the anchor desk. We know they are the very best of journalists because they say so, rather often. Their media Eden is invaded by a blow-dried, airhead snake named Tom Grunick (William Hurt). However, Tom establishes himself as a sympathetic figure. He's the only character who appears to have any humility, admitting that he's no genius and forthrightly asking help from Jane Craig (Hunter). What he knows is how to look good and sound smart, and he generously offers tips on anchoring to Aaron Altman (Brooks) _ perhaps knowing that the neurotic Aaron is no competition. Jane runs at such a high pitch that she often loses perspective. When her boss sarcastically tells her that it must be great to always be the smartest person in the room, she takes him seriously. ``No, it's awful,'' she sobs. Though Brooks and Hurt turn in first-class performances, this is Holly Hunter's movie and it runs on her energy. It's not just the two guys in the film who will fall in love with her. _ By Robert Barr, Associated Press Writer.
AP880728-0235 	X	Tonka Corp. announced a $7.6 million second-quarter loss and said it has laid off 110 employees in a restructuring of its Kenner Products and Tonka toy divisions. In cutting the 87 full-time and 23 part-time employees Wednesday, Tonka cited disappointing sales of its once hot Pound Puppies line and other Tonka products as well as a need to eliminate overlapping responsibilities with the recently-acquired Kenner Parker Toys. The company said its second-quarter loss came on sales of $198.4 million, and compared with earnings of $1.6 million, or 20 cents per share, on sales of $49.6 million in the same period a year earlier. Tonka attributed the loss to charges in connection with the Kenner Parker acquisition. The results brought Tonka's six-month losses to $18.1 million, compared with earnings of $3.2 million, or 41 cents a share, in the first half of 1987. First half revenues rose to $366.8 million from $97.9 million. Tonka renewed its earlier prediction that it would break even or earn a profit for the year after reporting a loss of $7.5 million for all of 1987. The layoffs announced Wednesday were the latest in a series of employee cuts among Tonka's four divisions since the Kenner Parker acquisition was announced last fall, reducing total employment from about 4,600 to about 3,975. Stephen Shank, Tonka's chairman and chief executive, said he hoped Wednesday's action would put the company in a stable business position. Tonka also announced Wednesday two Kenner executives will head a new U.S. toy group within the company to oversee the autonomous Kenner and Tonka divisions. David Mauer, 39, president and general manager of Kenner in Cincinnati, will head the group, and Joseph Fortino, 51, senior vice president of Kenner, will hold the same position within the new group.
AP901215-0054 	X	Iran was carrying out what were described as its biggest military maneuvers ever, and spiritual leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei today ordered armed forces to be ready for any eventuality in the Persian Gulf. Tehran radio, monitored in Nicosia, said Khamenei addressed ranking military officers taking part in the air-sea exercises, code-named Piroozi 1, or ``Victory 1.'' Iran has spoken strongly against the presence of foreign military troops in the gulf region confronting Iraq, and Khamenei referred to them as ``the enemy forces.'' He said Iranian military preparedness was important because its enemies are ``armed to the teeth.'' Iran stands ready to confront any unexpected situation in the region, he said. Iran fought a 1980-88 war with Iraq, but Iraqi President Saddam Hussein made concessions for peace after his armies invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2. The Iranian maneuvers appeared to present no conflict with the U.S.-led multinational force because they were taking place near Iran's southern islands, far from where the ships of the multinational force are deployed. The maneuvers reportedly began Wednesday, but were not mentioned in the Iranian media until today. The radio said the destroyer Sabalan, which was rebuilt after being severely damaged in March 1988 by the U.S. fleet protecting merchant ships in the gulf, was launched by Khamenei. The rebuilt destroyer will be taking part in the war games, the radio said. It did not provide other details about the maneuvers. The Islamic Republic News Agency, also monitored in Nicosia, said last month that the 10-day exercises would cover 12,000 square miles in the Persian Gulf and Gulf of Oman, and involve 50 warships. Several helicopters and hundreds of speedboats were also taking part, IRNA said. The news agency had earlier described the maneuvers as the biggest war games ever conducted by Iran. IRNA said the maneuvers would include amphibious operations and landings, rescue of ``captured'' ships and underwater rescue of frogmen. Weapons to be used included surface-to-surface missiles and air-to-surface missiles, IRNA reported in November. Smaller naval exercises have been conducted by Iran since the Kuwait invasion. The dominant Islamic Republic Guards Corps, which has its own air, military and naval wings, and Iran's regular armed forces, have often been in involved in disputes. Such internal strife was to blame for a string of military defeats in the Iran-Iraq war, which finally forced Iran to accept a cease-fire in August 1988. Khamenei said he expected the guards corps and the navy to perform their duties ``100 percent united.''
AP880625-0063 	X	An admiral has called for the court-martial of a Navy swimming instructor accused of holding a recruit's head under water and literally scaring him to death, a Navy spokesman said. Four other enlisted men and an officer accused in the death have until Monday to decide whether to accept more lenient disciplinary action or pursue a court-martial, Lt. Cmdr. Dennis Hessler said Friday. Rear Adm. David R. Morris of Corpus Christi, Texas, chief of naval air training, also dropped involuntary manslaughter charges against the enlisted men, except for Petty Officer 2nd Class Michael W. Combe, for whom he has recommended the court-martial, Hessler said. The Navy accused Combe of holding Airman Recruit Lee Mirecki, 19, of Appleton, Wis., under water after Combe and other instructors pushed or tossed the trainee into a pool when he panicked and tried to quit the course. Morris recommended the court-martial to Vice Adm. N.R. Thunman, chief of naval education and training, the ranking officer in Pensacola, said Hessler, Thunman's public affairs officer. ``It seems like he felt possibly that Combe was the most culpable, and I have to respect his decision because we are not part of the military process,'' Lynn Johansen, Mirecki's sister, said in Appleton. The decisions show all six defendants share the blame, she said. ``These men lacked professional judgment, and that's obvious,'' she said. ``Everyone's saying that the system failed, but these men were part of it.'' At a five-day investigative hearing two weeks ago, defense attorneys argued the system was at fault because Mirecki was allowed to return to training through a series of mix-ups after a flight surgeon declared him unfit and because use of force was a common practice condoned by authorities to keep scared, tired or malingering trainees in the pool. Mirecki had been described at the hearing as having died from ``sheer terror.'' A pathologist testified Mirecki had a phobia about being dragged under water, which triggered heart failure followed by drowning, although there was no determination of which factor killed him. Combe and the four other instructors had been charged with conspiracy to commit battery and involuntary manslaughter. Lt. Thomas A. Torchia, the officer in charge of the school, was accused of dereliction of duty and transferred. Morris offered to resolve the cases of Torchia, Petty Officers 1st Class Richard E. Blevins and David J. Smith and Petty Officers 2nd Class Frankie D. Deaton and John W. Zelenock with non-judicial punishment, Hessler said. If they decide to accept the offer, the extent of punishment would be determined at a proceeding known as an admiral's nest. They could face a pay cut, reduction in rank, restriction to the base or other penalties. A court-martial would enable a defendant to be cleared if acquitted but carries the risk of penalities that include prison time and removal from the service for a conviction.
AP880831-0126 	X	The National Council of Senior Citizens said Wednesday it is launching a campaign to dog Republican nominee George Bush on the campaign trail with signs reminding him of his 1985 vote in favor of a freeze on Social Security benefits. The council, which claims 4.5 million members, said it will undertake a massive distribution of voting records, literature and lawn signs to turn out older voters on behalf of Democrat Michael Dukakis for the Nov. 8 election. The group, created in the 1960s as an offshoot of organized labor to lobby for passage of Medicare, is planning news conferences on Thursday in 14 cities in Wisconsin, Illinois, California, Washington state and Ohio to publicize its stand. Its posters read, ``Bush whacked my Social Security on May 9, 1985. Vote Dukakis.'' Bush cast a tie-breaking vote on that date to defeat an amendment to exempt Social Security cost-of-living increases from a proposed federal budget freeze for 1986. However, President Reagan refused to endorse the freeze and it never became law.
AP901024-0227 	X	Former Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. chief Frederick Joseph testified against the man who led the firm to Wall Street stardom as the government finished the second phase of its pre-sentencing case against Michael Milken. Also Tuesday, the former president of an important Drexel junk-bond customer said Milken offered him a personal investment in a 1985 takeover after his company bought a large stake in the deal. The testimony by Richard Grassgreen was important because it was the first indication Milken may have directly given big clients equity in the leverage buyout of Storer Communications Inc. Taking the stand nearly four years after Drexel and Milken were linked to wrongdoing in the government's insider trading probe, Joseph said Milken may have violated company policies related to Storer investments and misled him. Government charges against Milken are being aired at a pre-sentencing hearing before U.S. District Judge Kimba Wood. Prosecutors claim Milken broke the law beyond criminal charges to which he has pleaded guilty and deserves a lengthy prison term. The hearing is to resume Thursday with testimony on the last of three alleged illegal transactions, involving trading in Caesar's World Inc. securities in 1983. A sentencing date has not been set. Grassgreen, formerly president of Kinder-Care Inc., testified as part of his own agreement to plead guilty to two felony charges related to pocketing up to $500,000 from investments made by his company. Tuesday's testimony focused on the $2.5 billion buyout of Storer by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co., for which Drexel provided financing in late 1985. Prosecutors claim Milken misappropriated valuable Storer equity warrants, or rights to purchase Storer stock, and used them to lure customers into buying riskier Storer securities. Under questioning from Assistant U.S. Attorney John Carroll, Grassgreen said that after committing Kinder-Care to buying $5 million in preferred stock in Storer he was told by a Drexel executive about the warrants. When Grassgreen asked whether Kinder-Care could buy some of the warrants, he said Milken told him, ``No, it's for you and Perry,'' referring to Kinder-Care chairman Perry Mendel. Grassgreen testified he believed he was offered the warrants because of his longstanding relationship with Drexel and the company's role in the Storer deal. But Grassgreen contradicted testimony last week by Drexel executive Thomas Connors. Also, none of six government witnesses on Storer directly backed the bribery charge against Milken. Grassgreen said under cross-examination by defense lawyer Arthur Liman that Milken was unaware of Grassgreen's lawbreaking and that all investments made with Drexel in a relationship dating to 1978 were based on merit. Grassgreen has agreed to plead guilty to pocketing commitment fees paid by Drexel to Kinder-Care for investing in four takeover deals and to failing to disclose his personal stake in Storer to his company. He resigned last week as president of Montgomery, Ala.-based Enstar Group Inc., Kinder-Care's successor. Milken, 44, pleaded guilty to six felony counts related to illegal trading and agreed to pay $600 million in penalties. He faces a maximum 28 years imprisonment. Joseph testified under Drexel's agreement to cooperate with the government in settling criminal charges last year. Drexel now is in Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings. He said he did not learn about a Drexel-related investment partnership known as MacPherson Investment Partners that was formed out of the Storer deal until 1988. MacPherson consisted of Drexel clients, money fund managers, Drexel employees and a trust in the name of the children of both Milken and his brother, Lowell, who also worked for Drexel. Joseph said the stake for the trust for the Milkens' children should have been disclosed to executives of the firm because of Drexel's role in creating and trading the securities. Disclosure was required to ensure the investment complied with federal and firm rules. Joseph said he believed the decision to give partnership stakes to fund managers whose institutions bought risky Storer securities also violated Drexel guidelines against giving ``favorable treatment'' to institutional investor accounts. Joseph also said that he asked Milken in the fall of 1988 whether any fund managers had invested in Drexel partnerships and Milken said no. Under cross-examination, Joseph said that Drexel employee partnerships had taken equity stakes in other leveraged buyout deals. Joseph also conceded that Milken was not responsible for determining whether investments needed to be disclosed and that Milken routinely consulted Drexel executives about personal investments.
AP881103-0132 	X	Janet Kiesner's 5-year-old son must walk to the same school his older brother goes to by bus because of a district policy designed to keep down costs. ``It's so dumb. I'd never have enrolled him (in kindergarten) . .. if I had known this would happen,'' said Kiesner, who doesn't drive. ``But now he loves it and I don't want to pull him out.'' Her son Joey is not permitted to take the bus because the Milwaukee Public Schools System prohibits the busing of children in its kindergarten classes for 4-year-olds if the youngsters live less than a mile from school. Older pupils, including those in kindergarten for 5-year-olds, get bus service. The problem, according to Richard F. Wenzel, assistant director of transportation for the district, is state law. It requires that if bus transportation were provided for pupils in 4-year-old kindergarten, it would have to be offered to all children in that age group. ``That would include 4-year-olds at day-care centers all over the city as well as to five miles outside the city,'' Wenzel said. ``There would be quite a financial impact.'' ``If it's too hazardous for a 5-year-old or my third-grader to walk, certainly it's too dangerous for a 4-year-old,'' said a frustrated Kiesner, whose 8-year-old son gets bused to the same school. She said she walks a neighbor's daughter, a 5-year-old kindergarten pupil, to her bus stop each day, waits for the bus to pick up the girl and then walks her younger son about six blocks along a busy city street to get him to the same school. ``To put one little kid on that bus and then have to walk my own child up to the same school seems ridiculous,'' Kiesner said. ``It's not like I'm asking for a special bus. It already stops right here and there's plenty of room,'' she said. School officials said they would like to bus Joey, but they are restricted by the school board's policy. And even though Joey has turned 5, he is still covered by the policy because he remains enrolled in 4-year-old kindergarten. The board has directed Superintendent Robert S. Peterkin to review the district's student assignment process, but Peterkin said no changes are likely to be made until 1990-91. School officials said there are two options for Kiesner. She can select another school farther from her home. According to Wenzel, busing is provided to youngsters in 4-year-old kindergarten if they attend a school more than a mile from home and their attendance enhances the school's racial balance. But Kiesner said she wants to keep her two children in the same school. ``I feel better knowing he (Joey) is in the same school with his brother.'' The second option, Wenzel said, is for Kiesner to negotiate a private contract with the bus company. A bus company spokesman estimated such a contract would cost about $2.50 a day. ``That's beyond my budget. I couldn't afford that,'' Kiesner said.
AP901109-0214 	X	Share prices ended slightly higher on London's Stock Exchange Friday after a lackluster session. Share prices picked up small gains in early trading as investors took advantage of Thursday's sharp decline to pick up some bargains. But as soon as the buying dried up the market drifted lower, failing to gain support from Wall Street's performance. The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index was up 4.4 points, or 0.2 percent, at 2,040.6 at the close. The Financial Times 30-share index rose 7.7 points to close at 1,582.6. The Financial Times 500-share index rose 1.15 points to close at 1,085.87. Volume was 370.1 million shares compared with 423.1 million shares Friday.
AP901021-0042 	X	A former day care center employee has been sentenced to 10 years' probation for spiking an infant's formula with rubbing alcohol because she was angry at co-workers. Patricia Ann Escarenio, 21, pleaded guilty to injury to a child in connection with the April 24 incident and was sentenced Friday by State District Judge Mike Wilkinson. She also was fined $5,000. The 4-month-old boy who drank the formula was hospitalized but authorities said he suffered no lasting effects because he vomited the concoction. Assistant District Attorney Carol Davies said authorities believe Ms. Escarenio was angered at the boy's mother, her co-worker at Chuckles & Grins day care center, because of a job assignment that day. Later that day, Ms. Escarenio checked herself into the psychiatric unit of St. Joseph Hospital and admitted tainting the bottle, Ms. Davies said.
AP880524-0286 	X	Stocks rose slightly in early trading today as a surge of dividend-related trading caused business to heat up from the previous session, the slowest since last Thanksgiving. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials edged up 4.64 points to 1,946.12 in the first 1{ hours of trading. Gainers narrowly outnumbered losers in the overall tally of New York Stock Exchange-listed issues, with 578 issues up, 541 down and 529 unchanged. Volume on the Big Board came to 61.44 million shares as of 11 a.m. on Wall Street. In economic news, the Commerce Department said orders to U.S. factories for ``big ticket'' durable goods rose 0.8 percent in April, boosted by a jump in orders for military communications equipment. The third consecutive monthly increase, which fell in line with expectations, followed gains of 0.9 percent in March and 0.1 percent in February. It confirmed most analysts' views that the economy is growing robustly. Murray Ohio Manufacturing Co. leaped 7~ to 59[ after a delay caused by an overload of buy orders. A federal judge ruled Monday that Sweden's AB Electrolux could proceed with its bid for Murray, and Electrolux raised its bid for the company to $52 a share, or $197 million. Utilities dominated the list of most actively traded stocks as traders sought to capture their dividends. Northeast Utilities was up [ at 19} and Kansas Power and Light was up \at 24\. Among blue-chip stocks, Boeing was up 1 at 52}, Citicorp was up \ at 22, Texaco was unchanged at 46[ and Eastman Kodak was up \ at 40~. The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks was up 0.18 to 142.39. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index was down 0.26 at 290.42. On Monday, the volume on the floor of the Big Board came to 102.64 million shares for the full session, the smallest total since 86.36 million were traded in a post-Thanksgiving session last Nov. 27.
AP900212-0159 	X	E.L. Doctorow's ``Billy Bathgate'' won the fiction category in the 1989 National Book Critics Circle awards announced Monday. The awards are given annually for new books by American authors published in the United States. The board called ``Billy Bathgate'' a ``wondrous achievement by a writer who has written other fine novels in his distinguished career.'' The winner in the general non-fiction category was ``The Broken Cord'' by Michael Dorris, a first-person account of how fetal alcohol syndrome affected the author's son. ``A First-Class Temperament: The Emergence of Franklin Roosevelt,'' by Geoffrey C. Ward, was the winner in the biography-autobiography category; ``Transparent Gestures,'' by Rodney Jones, won for poetry; and ``Not by Fact Alone: Essays on the Writing and Reading of History,'' by James Clive, won for criticism. The National Book Critics Circle, founded in 1974, is a non-profit organization of 580 book critics and book review editors. The award ceremony is scheduled for March 8 at New York University.
AP900713-0183 	X	Britain's beleaguered trade secretary, Nicholas Ridley, came home Friday night from a trade visit to Hungary and expectations were he will resign after his charge that West Germany wanted to take over a united Europe. His comments in a magazine interview, which he later retracted, provoked cross-party calls for his resignation and were denounced in Germany, France and other European countries. Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher refused Friday to answer questions about Ridley's political future, reportedly leaving the first move up to him. But even rank-and-file members of her Conservative Party, who applaud his warning of German supremacy over a united Europe, said he will have to go. Sir Marcus Fox, vice chairman of the 1922 Committee of Tory lawmakers, told BBC Radio 4 that Ridley's position was now ``very bad.'' Mrs. Thatcher told the House of Commons on Thursday that Ridley was not reflecting government policy, nor her own views, but she rejected demands for his dismissal. Ridley, 61, the outspoken and controversial son of Viscount Ridley, is considered Mrs. Thatcher's closest ideological ally in the Cabinet. Political commentators said his departure would be a blow to her. In the interview with the conservative weekly, the Spectator, Ridley said the West German government's support for European monetary union ``is all a German racket designed to take over the whole of Europe. It has to be thwarted. ``This rushed take-over by the Germans on the worst possible basis, with the French behaving like poodles to the Germans, is absolutely intolerable.'' Ridley said he opposed yielding sovereignty to the 12-nation European Community, which he said was run by ``17 unelected reject politicians.'' He said: ``You might just as well give it to Adolf Hitler, frankly.'' Earlier Friday night, Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd made the government's first move to repair the damage to Anglo-European relations. Speaking at the Anglo-American conference center near Oxford, Hurd said: ``Our alliance, our partnership and our friendship with France and Germany lie at the heart of modern British foreign policy. ``Lingering memories from the past do not prevent us from strengthening, month by month, the practical proofs of that friendship. ``Irreversible also is the steadily increasing cooperation with the fellow members and institutions of the European Community of which the prime minister spoke after the Dublin (EEC) summit (last month). ``Nothing will now put these processes in doubt.'' Paddy Ashdown, leader of the centrist Liberal Democratic Party, said: ``The issue has now become not Mr. Ridley's folly but Mrs. Thatcher's judgment. By refusing to sack him, she is multiplying the insult of his outrageous views.'' Gordon Brown, the opposition Labor Party's trade spokesman, said she was guilty of a ``dismal failure of leadership'' for leaving the decision about Ridley's future in his hands. ``With this indecision following on top of the Ridley insults, her inaction today signifies an astonishing abdication of responsibility that will make Britain the subject of, at best, ridicule, and at worst, hostility throughout Europe,'' he said.
AP881009-0034 	X	The Soviet Union on Sunday reported its first AIDS death, that of a pregnant prostitute from Leningrad, and authorities may publish her photograph to alert her sexual partners. The 29-year-old woman died Sept. 5 of pneumonia following a 26-pound weight loss, chronic tonsillitis and bronchitis and a serious decline in the count of her immune system's T-cells, the labor newspaper Trud reported. All are common symptoms of aquired immune deficiency syndrome, and the newspaper noted that epidemiologists were incensed that the woman's doctors failed to diagnose AIDS before she died. They are now trying to locate the victim's sexual partners to determine who else might be infected with the disease, and authorities are considering publishing the woman's photograph to alert her partners, Trud said. She was registered as a night school student and as a worker at a factory, but police said she earned her living as a prostitute for foreigners. Soviet officials say they have identified 83 AIDS carriers but only one person who has developed the deadly disease. However, they say other cases may have been diagnosed incorrectly. AIDS is caused by a virus that damages the body's immune system, leaving victims susceptible to infections and cancer. It is spread most often through sexual contact, needles or syringes shared by drug abusers, infected blood or blood products, and from pregnant women to their offspring.
AP881216-0213 	X	Breakneck efforts to expand the economy is exacting an enormous human price in South Korea. Thousands of workers are killed or crippled every year in what critics claim is the world's highest industrial accident rate. The economic miracle has transformed South Korea in 30 years from a poor, backward nation into an industrial powerhouse, but little attention has been paid to the cost of the rapid growth. An average of five workers are killed and 390 are injured every day in accidents in every kind of workplace, from huge factories and shipyards to backstreet sweatshops employing two or three people. In 1987, 1,761 workers were killed in job accidents and 25,244 were maimed, according to government figures. In the three years from 1985 to 1987, 5,139 workers were killed and 66,991 were maimed, the figures show. The number of serious accidents is increasing as the economy grows. The accident rate rose from 654 deaths and 2,717 crippling accidents in 1972 to the 1987 total, the figures show. The Korean Federation of Labor Unions and academic experts, using figures from international labor sources, contend South Korea has the world's highest industrial accident rate. Safety standards are not enforced and the government and businesses are concerned only with economic growth, they claim. South Korea's accident rate is five times greater than neighboring Japan's or Taiwan and about 15 times higher than Western nations, officials said. Labor Ministry officials deny that South Korea has the world's worst accident rate, but said they did not know of a nation with a higher one. The International Labor Organization, an arm of the United Nations in Geneva, said it does not compile comparative figures on industrial accidents. Government officials acknowledge that little has been done to enforce safety and health regulations and many people work in dangerous conditions. The government wants to cut the accident rate in half by 1990, they say. ``It's shameful to have such a high industrial accident rate,'' said Kim Jung-kyu, who heads the Ministry of Labor's safety section. Labor union activists maintain that the main causes of accidents are poor working conditions and pressure on workers to meet production schedules at any price. Many factories have little or no safety gear, and workers spend up to 12 hours a day in deafening, poorly lit and overheated workspaces where they become fatigued and easily make mistakes that cause accidents, activists said. ``Many workers spend their days in terrible, dehumanizing conditions where they are considered virtually expendable. There are always more workers ready to work,'' said one activist. Past authoritarian governments played a major role in planning and directing South Korea's rapid economic and industrial expansion. The governments allowed businesses to ignore or scrimp on safety and helped suppress labor protests. The Labor Ministry's safety section, which is responsible for enforcing safety nationwide for more than 6 million industrial workers, has a staff of 13 people. While insisting that the government attitude has changed, Kim said safety still is ignored by many employers. Many companies save money by not installing safety devices or training workers to use equipment, he said. Park Sang-nak, a top safety official with the Korean Federation of Labor Unions, said it is cheaper for companies to pay compensation to injured workers than spend money on safety equipment. Employers pay marginal compensation for accident victims under Korean law. Maximum compensation for the family of a worker killed in an accident provides enough money to live on for just two or three years, officials said. The growing sophistication of Korean industry is adding to safety problems and accident rates, rather than cutting them as in other nations, officials say. Many companies eager to get ahead often introduce advanced equipment before their workers are capable of using it safely, government and labor officials said. ``Companies have gotten big by using new tools, advanced technology and dangerous chemicals,'' Park said. ``But workers have not been given adequate education or training.'' But Kim of the Labor Ministry said many workers are indifferent to safety and he claimed that carelessness is one of the main causes of accidents. ``Many workers do not wear helmets, goggles or heat-proof clothing even when it is provided.'' Labor unions and political parties are pressing the government to take drastic action to enforce safety regulations and cut accidents. Poor safety is the second main cause of strikes after wage demands. President Roh Tae-woo's administration, which took office in February, says it wants to drastically reduce industrial accidents as part of its efforts to improve life for the working classes. Roh hopes to attract more public support for his administration and defuse potential worker unrest. The government no longer automatically sides with management and has encouraged companies to give raises and other concessions. The Labor Ministry plans a major survey of businesses to ensure safety regulations are enforced and to cut accidents by more than half by 1990. But a government plan to increase safety spending by 280 percent in 1989 will still mean just $17.4 million is available _ far below the levels of most industrial nations. Plans for more safety inspectors will add just a few dozen personnel. Labor leaders call the plan inadequate.
AP900322-0119 	X	The small white madonna is still nestled outside the brown-shingled duplex where Carol DiMaiti Stuart grew up and where her parents and aunt still live. But six months after her slaying, no one answers the door. The same is true a few miles away on Lowe Street in Revere, where the parents of Charles Stuart have maintained a silence about the horrifying crime that riveted the nation. Boston police, citing an ongoing grand jury investigation, have remained almost as closemouthed as the families. The case that took a shocking twist Jan. 4, when Charles Stuart apparently jumped to his death from the Tobin Bridge, remains a mystery. ``There are a hell of a lot more holes in this story than solid information,'' said Ken Englade, an Albuquerque, N.M.-based writer whose paperback, `Murder in Boston,' is due in bookstores at the end of the month. ``It doesn't help that nobody is talking.'' Englade said he was frustrated by the refusal of Boston police and Suffolk County District Attorney Newman Flanagan to disclose information about the case. They also have withheld medical reports. More baffling is the prosecutor's refusal to release tapes of the lineup where Charles Stuart allegedly identified William Bennett as his assailant. And even though life insurance money was thought to be Stuart's motive, only $280,000 in life insurance money was apparently taken out on his wife's life. The two $100,000 policies purchased by Stuart were ``barely enough to cover the mortgage on their house,'' Englade said. Carol Stuart was insured for $80,000 through her work. Based on his research, Englade said he is not convinced Stuart actually killed his wife or even if he jumped off the bridge voluntarily. He cited numerous contradictions in the case _ even in the hours before Stuart's apparent suicide when he left instructions with a hotel clerk to rouse him at 4:30 a.m. ``Who leaves a wake-up call to commit suicide?'' Englade asserted. The only person associated with the tragedy who is willing to talk is Carol's 37-year-old brother, Carl DiMaiti, a former high school teacher who has taken over the family's pizza dough business. He heads the scholarship foundation established in Carol's name for residents in Boston's Mission Hill district where she was shot. So far, the foundation has received more than $340,000. This week found him in a familiar setting: accepting a donation for the foundation at an inner city outreach center. He is usually accompanied by two public relations agent who monitor his remarks. DiMaiti said Thursday his family's ordeal has been eased considerably by their work with the foundation. ``I'm amazed that people have gone out of their way and responded like this,'' he said. ``It shows the deep well of goodness in people. It's been a very difficult time for us. This has especially helped my mother and father through a very tough time.'' Their ordeal began the night of Oct. 23 when Boston police received a frantic call over a car phone from Stuart. He said he and his wife had been shot by a black gunman who robbed them shortly after they left a childbirth class at a hospital in Mission Hill. Carol Stuart, a 30-year-old tax attorney who was seven months pregnant, was shot in the head. She died a few hours later after her son, Christopher, was prematurely delivered. The baby died 17 days later. Stuart, 30-year-old manager of a fur store, was shot in the stomach and remained hospitalized until December. His body was recovered from the waters of Boston Harbor the day after his younger brother, Matthew, told police he had been enlisted by Charles to aid in the crime. Since then, a grand jury has met seven times to hear testimony in the case, according to Dave Rodman, spokesman for the district attorney's office. Stuart's siblings and his mother have appeared before the grand jury. Sources who spoke on condition of anonymity said several witnesses are still scheduled to testify. The families have picked up the pieces of their lives in various ways. Carol's mother, Evelyn DiMaiti, 58, has returned to her job in a state office. Mrs. DiMaiti's husband, Giusto, 64, is retired but can often be found at the family bakery in nearby Chelsea. Charles Stuart Sr., who suffers from Parkinson's disease, and his wife, Dorothy, remain in seclusion at the home they share with sons, Matthew and Mark. Matthew reportedly still holds his job as a mixer at a paint factory and is a familiar figure on the streets of Revere in his stone-washed jeans and leather jacket. In addition to the soon-to-be published paperback, at least two hardback books and a CBS television movie are planned. Paul Corkery, a freelance writer and former editor of Boston Magazine, has rented an apartment in Revere to work on his book for Simon and Schuster. He said he has 50,000 words of notes, culled mostly from interviews with friends and relatives outside the two families. ``It's not a typical whodunit,'' said Corkery. ``It's the story of a hero who turned out to be the villain.''
AP900608-0138 	X	A court on Friday convicted a London man of conspiracy in an IRA bombing campaign in Britain and sentenced him to 30 years in prison. Nicholas Mullen was charged in connection with one of the biggest caches of terrorist equipment ever found in Britain. The stockpile of arms and explosives was discovered in London in 1988. Justice Anthony Hidden, said Mullen, 42, was ``a very dangerous man.'' ``You combine a high degree of criminal cunning with a commitment to a particular cause. That cause deals not with arguments but with atrocities,'' Hidden said. The Old Bailey Central Criminal Court jury deliberated 12 hours before finding Mullen guilty of conspiracy to cause bombings for his part in the Irish Republican Army's 1988 bombing campaign. Eamon Wadley, 36, also on trial for terrorist offenses, was cleared of all charges. Police accidentally discovered the arms and explosives stockpile in south London in December 1988 after a man was shot in the stomach in a disturbance on the street in front of an apartment complex. The gunman ran into the complex, and a search of the area found an apartment filled with terrorist equipment, including nearly 200 pounds of Czechoslovak-made Semtex explosive, an unspecified number of machine guns and other firearms, rifles, handguns, and bomb-making equipment. During the six-week trial the jury heard how Mullen helped the IRA by renting apartments, buying used cars and obtaining false identities for the guerillas. However, the Old Bailey jury found Wadley innocent of aiding terrorists, and he was acquitted of four charges of making property available for use in connection with terrorism. Prosecutor John Nutting called the south London apartment ``one of biggest caches of terrorist equipment ever found in this country.'' The prosecutor said that if the plot had not been unexpectedly foiled, the IRA's campaign would ``certainly have led to the death or injury of many people.'' The IRA is waging a bloody fight to drive the British out of the predominantly Protestant province of Northern Ireland and unite it with the Roman Catholic Irish Republic.
AP900301-0124 	X	Two residents have put up a billboard asking a million-dollar question _ how much should Ivana Trump get in her divorce from Donald Trump? The sign was put up Tuesday at an intersection in this central Pennsylvania town. It reads: ``Do you think Ivana Trump should get more than $25 million?'' Mrs. Trump's attorneys have rejected a $25 million sum specified in a prenuptial agreement. In arranging for the billboard, residents Lea Isenberg and Jim Smith had a motivation familiar to real-estate developer Trump _ the profit motive. The billboard gives 900-line phone numbers to call to vote yes or no, for a charge of $1. ``When we first started kicking it around at work, we actually discussed creating our own game titled, `Trump _ the Divorce,''' Isenberg said Wednesday. ``But we found out we could actually make some money through the billboard idea. ``In just two days we've been contacted by people from as far away as San Antonio, Cleveland, Memphis and Detroit,'' she said. During that time they received 54 calls, 58 percent in favor of giving Mrs. Trump more money and 42 percent against it, Isenberg said.
AP900115-0117 	X	Two policemen injured when the brakes failed on an ambulance operated by Mother Teresa's hospital remained hospitalized Monday, doctors said. Two other pedestrians died after they were struck in Saturday's accident. Doctors treating the two constables said on condition of anonymity they were still under medical care but gave no other details. Police initially reported that Mother Teresa was in the ambulance when the accident occurred. But police and the 79-year-old Nobel Peace Prize winner's fellow Roman Catholic nuns said Sunday she was not in the vehicle. ``There was confusion because she reached the scene within minutes,'' an officer said on condition of anonymity. The accident occurred on a busy street a few hundred yards from the building where Mother Teresa lives. Several nuns wearing blue and white saris identical to Mother Teresa's attire were in the ambulance, adding to the confusion. The ambulance was carrying medical supplies but no patients when the accident occurred. Police said its brakes failed and it struck two pedestrians who had just stepped off the sidewalk into the street. The ambulance then veered onto the sidewalk and struck the two constables, according to the police reports. Mother Teresa accompanied the injured to a nearby hospital, where two of them late died, the police report said. Mother Teresa, who was born in Yugoslavia, won the 1979 Nobel Peace Prize for her work among Calcutta's destitute and dying. The Missionaries of Charity, the Roman Catholic order she founded in the city in 1959, has 3,000 nuns working in 87 countries. The frail nun suffered a heart attack in September and resumed work last week. Members of her order said Sunday that Mother Teresa's health was stable but that she was saddened by the deaths.
AP900323-0107 	X	Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher said Friday she will press on with unpopular anti-inflationary policies despite her Conservative Party's most stunning by-election defeat in 50 years. ``We are not a fair-weather party. We are not for trimming and turning,'' Mrs. Thatcher said in a letter to party chairman Kenneth Baker after Thursday's upset. The letter was released by the party headquarters. The opposition Labor Party scored a landslide victory in the previous Tory stronghold of Mid-Staffordshire in central England. Labor leaders declared that 11 years after being ousted by Mrs. Thatcher, they are on course to return to power. In Mid-Straffordshire, Labor candidate Sylvia Heal, a social worker, took 49 percent of the vote. The Conservatives' Charles Prior got 33 percent, while other parties took the rest of the votes. The one-seat loss scarcely dented Mrs. Thatcher's control of the 650-member House of Commons, where she has an overall 100-seat majority. But the by-election rout raised new uncertainties about her political future. Recent straw polls have indicated a significant minority of the Tory members of the House of Commons _ who elect the party leader each fall _ want her to retire before the next election. It must be held by mid-1992. Her party and personal ratings are slumping largely because of soaring home loan rates and a new local tax, which will replace property taxes starting April 1 and increase what many Britons pay the government. Some senior Tories acknowledge the new tax, formally known as a community charge, has been a blunder. ``The government has got to be a lot more sensitive ... there have got to be changes in the community charge,'' said Tory legislator John Lee in a radio interview. Lee's north England district, Pendle, is among 76 highly vulnerable Tory constituencies held by majorities of few thousand votes or less. Labor Party leader Neil Kinnock said the victory Thursday was a turning point for the Conservatives, who ``are going to have to make up their minds how quickly they get rid of Mrs. Thatcher.'' ``Her leadership is misleadership, and the sooner she goes the better,'' he said on British Broadcasting Corp. TV. ``We will defeat any Conservative leader at the next election.'' The Conservatives, 10 points ahead in opinion polls a year ago, are now 21 points behind Labor. It is the biggest deficit since Mrs. Thatcher won a third consecutive term in 1987. Government popularity has waned steadily as the Thatcher administration doubled interest rates to 15 percent in less than two years to try to curb resurgent inflation. But inflation is more than 7 percent, among the highest of major industrialized nations. The government is banking on inflation to start falling next year in time to lower interest rates before it has to call an election.
AP880426-0305 	X	America's burgeoning love affair with the compact disk propelled the music business to a banner year in 1987, with sales of records, cassette tapes and compact disks totaling $5.57 billion. That figure _ based on suggested retail price, a somewhat inflated estimate _ was up 20 percent from $4.65 billion in 1986, the Recording Industry Association of America said Monday. The total number of disks sold also rose, in contrast to 1986 when sales of the high-priced disks pushed the dollar value up while unit sales declined, the association said. The total number of records, tapes and disks shipped rose 14 percent to 706.8 million last year, but that failed to top the all-time high unit sales of 726.2 million in 1978. Sales of compact disks, the high-quality, laser-read recordings now favored by audiophiles, soared 93 percent in 1987, to 102 million disks worth an estimated $1.6 billion. The number of cassette tapes sold rose 19 percent to 410 million tapes for an estimated $2.9 billion. Sales of record albums and extended play records dropped 15 percent to 107 million records, for an estimated $793 million. Singles sales were down 13 percent to 82 million units, or $228 million. A new format, the cassette ``single,'' which contains just one or two songs, accounted for 5 million units, or $14.3 million.
AP881017-0234 	X	Mart Niklus was awestruck when speakers at a conference blessed by the Kremlin made the same statements that had landed him in prison, but he said the new freedom had not penetrated Soviet labor camps. Niklus, a dissident for decades who was freed July 8, heard two days of speeches as a guest delegate to an officially sanctioned meeting of the People's Front, an Estonian nationalist group. ``A lot has changed,'' he said. ``People have become less afraid of publicity. They criticize the authorities boldly. ``People are more frank, open-hearted. National self-consciousness has become very strong. It's surprising for me.'' Niklus agreed that fewer people are going to jail for political reasons, but also said the reform program President Mikhail S. Gorbachev calls perestroika had not eased the misery of those already there. ``There have been no changes. Perestroika hasn't reached the correctional labor camps,'' he said. For Niklus, the memories of arrests and prison are too vivid to permit complete belief in Gorbachev's reforms. He still holds his hand over his mouth when speaking of politically sensitive matters. As a reminder to all, the 54-year-old former inmate wore the black-and-gray striped uniform of ``special regime'' prisoners like himself who are repeat offenders or considered especially dangerous. Speakers at the conference Oct. 1-2 in Tallinn's city hall urged Moscow to renounce Josef Stalin's pact with the Nazis under which the Soviet Union took control of independent Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania in 1940. ``I was sentenced for that. ... I got 10 years for that,'' Niklus said in the excellent English he learned while studying ornithology before he was sent to prison. He and 47 other activists signed an appeal on the 40th anniversary of the agreement, Aug. 23, 1979, demanding its renunciation. He was arrested in April 1980 on charges of ``anti-Soviet propaganda and agitation'' and sentenced to 10 years in prison and five in internal exile. It was Niklus' fourth arrest. He spent eight years in jail in the 1960s. Now even the Estonian Communist Party is calling for a review of Stalin's foreign and domestic policies. The party also has taken up some of nationalist demands: making Estonian the official language, gaining local control over the republic's economy and curbing immigration of non-Estonians. As a ``special regime'' prisoner, Niklus spent most of his time in solitary. He was hospitalized for a month after his release, being treated for chronic back pain that developed because he was forced to sit for long periods and poor eyesight he said resulted from confinement in a small, dark cell. To illustrate the decline of his health, Niklus displayed two photographs _ one taken in 1976, before his latest imprisonment, in which he had a full head of black hair and full cheeks; the other taken after his release in July, showing a man with gray, thin hair and sunken cheeks. ``You are not treated as a human'' in special regime, he said. Niklus described the standard diet was thin gruel, bread and weak tea with sugar for breakfast; cabbage soup, bread and oatmeal for lunch, except for Sunday when the main course was macaroni, and hot water and a small piece of fish in the evening. Those meager rations may improve, however. On July 25, the Soviet parliament directed that rations for prisoners in solitary confinement or special regime no longer be reduced. Western estimates put the number of Soviet labor camps at more than 1,000 and say they hold at least 1 million people, perhaps twice that. Amnesty International, the London-based human rights group, says about 200 people now are in labor camps, psychiatric hospitals or internal exile because of political beliefs, compared with 10,000 a few years ago. Soviet officials say all but a few people classified in the West as political prisoners were freed by amnesties in February and June 1987. They say the ``anti-Soviet propanganda and agitation'' law under which they and Niklus were convicted is being softened in a revision of the criminal code. Perhaps, but Niklus said: ``They may arrest me again now. I have been arrested four times. You never know when they will get you again.'' Then he added, with a slight chuckle: ``But I am not afraid. I have a kind of immunity.''
AP880812-0204 	X	George Bush reviewed the names of potential running mates with senior advisers Friday, asking ``a few questions about a few people,'' but said he has not made up his mind, a campaign source said. ``He indicated he has not narrowed it,'' the source said. ``We talked about individuals. He's still asking questions and seeking information.'' The source, insisting on anonymity, said Bush told his advisers he thought he would make his decision before he flies to New Orleans on Tuesday for the Republican convention but wasn't sure of that. Meanwhile, Illinois Gov. James R. Thompson, one of more than a dozen people said to be under consideration, called Bush on Friday to ask that his name be withdrawn, citing his family. ``The vice president's job requires a lot of national and international travel,'' Thompson said. ``My wife couldn't travel with me because I've got a 10-year-old in school, and that's not true of the other candidates.'' Bush is spending the weekend in Washington mulling his choice and working on the speech he will deliver Thursday night in accepting the Republican presidential nomination. On his arrival here Tuesday, Bush will join President Reagan at an airport ceremony and then get on a boat to cross the Mississippi River for a welcoming rally downtown. Leaders of Bush's campaign assembled at his headquarters in Washington at 7 a.m. Friday to talk with the vice president about his search for a running mate. The group included Craig Fuller, his chief of staff; campaign manager Lee Atwater; pollster Robert Teeter; media adviser Roger Ailes; press secretary Sheila Tate; former Sen. Nicholas Brady, nominated last week to be Treasury secretary, longtime Texas friend Robert Mosbacher. Bush gave no clue about his preference, the source said. ``He asked a few questions about a few people. He's seeking more information. He hasn't made a decision and he's unwilling to say when he will.'' The source refused to say who was discussed or how many names were reviewed. Afterward, Atwater flew to New Orleans for final preparations for the convention. Among Bush's staff, there were differing opinions on whether he actually has made up his mind but just isn't telling anyone. One official, insisting on anonymity, expressed the view that Bush knows who he wants but is holding it back until the last minute. Gov. John Sununu of New Hampshire, one of the prospects, said he thought Bush should keep it a secret until Wednesday or Thursday. GOP Chairman Frank Fahrenkopf said he is trying to persuade the Bush forces it would be best to announce the running mate choice on Wednesday night after the convention nominates Bush, as Reagan did in 1980 when he chose Bush. Fahrenkopf, in an interview, said that making the announcement on Thursday would undercut the news value of Bush's speech to the convention Thursday night. It would put the only two big news stories of the convention in competition with each other for Friday's front pages. Fahrenkopf said he would favor having Bush come to the convention hall, thank the delegates for nominating him and then ask their support for his vice presidential choice. Meanwhile, Rep. Lynn Martin, R-Ill., a co-chair of Bush's campaign who has been mentioned as a possible running mate, declined to say if she had been asked if she wanted to be considered. However, she said, ``It's not going to be offered and I wouldn't take it.'' People who were contacted by Bush, and asked to provide financial data, include Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole and his wife, former Transportation Secretary Elizabeth Dole, Rep. Jack Kemp of New York, and Sens. Pete Domenici of New Mexico, Dan Quayle of Indiana and Alan Simpson of Wyoming, according to campaign aides. Sen. Nancy Kassebaum of Kansas, rumored to be under consideration, has said she isn't interested in the job. Govs. George Deukmejian of California, Thompson of Illinois, Sununu of New Hampshire and Carroll Campbell of South Carolina and former Gov. Lamar Alexander of Tennessee were also among those on the original list of those under consideration, the aides said. Deukmejian also has asked that his name be withdrawn.
AP901214-0170 	X	A prosecutor said Friday he will not appeal a judge's dismissal of a first-degree murder charge against a doctor who invented a device that an Alzheimer's victim used to kill herself. District Judge Gerald McNally on Thursday threw out a first-degree murder charge against retired pathologist Dr. Jack Kevorkian in the June 4 death of Janet Adkins of Portland, Ore. She died after activating a machine invented by Kevorkian that sent poison into her veins. The ruling doesn't let Kevorkian use the suicide device again. Oakland County Prosecutor Richard Thompson said the ruling left many moral, medical, ethical and religious issues unsettled. ``We think Judge McNally's decision was wrong,'' he said. ``(But) these profound issues should be decided by the legislative branch of government, that branch which is pre-eminently suited to consider the consensus of society.'' Thompson also said there was no guarantee the Michigan Supreme Court or Michigan Court of Appeals would hear the case and an appeal would drain county funds. ``I'm pleased that he's not going to waste further taxpayers' money on an appeal,'' Geoffrey Fieger, one of Kevorkian's lawyers. ``And I hope he'll drop the civil case as well. I hope he decides not to enforce morality through the prosecutor's office.'' Thompson said the county will continue its civil case blocking Kevorkian from using his suicide machine or helping others commit suicide. Kevorkian's machine remains in police custody after prosecutors obtained a temporary court order preventing its further use. A civil trial to decide whether or not to make that order permanent will resume in January, Thompson said. Kevorkian hooked Mrs. Adkins, 54, to his device in the back of a van in a park in Oakland County northwest of Detroit. Adkins pushed a button, allowing lethal drugs to drip into her system. Michigan has no laws against suicide or assisting in it, but the Legislature is considering at least two bills outlawing assisted suicide.
AP900219-0046 	X	Business leaders breathed a collective sigh of relief today at the governing party's electoral victory, interpreting it as voter support for the policies that have brought economic prosperity to Japan. But they warned that the scandal-plagued party still must do more to bolster public trust. ``I saw this election as a test for our nation's liberalism, and my feeling of crisis had been growing,'' Eiji Suzuki, president of the Japan Federation of Employers Association, said in a statement. Eishiro Saito, chairman of the powerful Japan Federation of Economic Organizations (Keidanren), told reporters: ``The decision by the people not to destroy the foundation of the free economy, the basis of Japanese economic growth to date, should be highly appreciated.'' He welcomed the Liberal Democratic Party's renewed majority in Parliament's lower house, but urged more discussion and mutual understanding between the governing and opposition parties for greater political stability. Shun Ishihara, chariman of the Japan Committee for Economic Development, warned the Liberal Democrats that they should not think the public has forgiven and accepted all of their actions. ``The party has not fully improved. The Liberal Democratic Party still needs to be reborn in order to recover the public trust,'' he added. The business community had been concerned about whether the pro-business governing party could keep control of the government after it lost its majority in Parliament's less powerful upper house in elections last July. Voters then registered their disapproval of a new 3 percent sales tax and a widespread influence-buying scandal in which many leading Liberal Democrats were implicated. In Sunday's election for the lower house, which names the prime minister and controls the budget, anger over the tax and scandal apparently had faded. In addition, many voters echoed the view of business leaders that the opposition Socialists were not capable of governing effectively. The Liberal Democrats, who have governed Japan since their party's founding in 1955, ended with a comfortable majority _ 275 of the lower house's 512 seats. The Socialists won 136. ``The outcome shows that the Liberal Democrats' taxation policy, including their stance toward the sales tax, has been accepted by the people,'' said Rokuro Ishikawa, president of the Japan Chambaer of Commerce and Industry. The Liberal Democrats have promised to review the tax, which took effect in April, and possibly lower the levy on groceries, rents and some other items. The opposition has demanded abolition of the tax. Keidanren's Saito supported the review of the tax, but added, ``I do hope the parliamentary session will not be disrupted over the consumption tax revision when the taxation system is gaining general acceptance.'' Since the opposition controls the upper house, a stalemate over the tax is possible. The governing party also might face trouble in enacting legislation to deal with U.S.-Japan economic friction. ``It's the most serious concern for me right now that the trade dispute between Japan and the United States will get worse,'' said Isao Yonekura, president of C. Itoh and Co., a leading trading company. Despite the relief of business leaders over the Liberal Democrats' victory, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's leading index plunged today. The 225-share Nikkei Stock Average rose more than 130 points in early trading, as final election returns came in, but then the market's concern turned to the possibility of higher interest rates, a dampening factor on stock investment. The Nikkei ended at 37,222.60, down 237.72 points, or 0.63 percent, from last Friday.
AP880619-0085 	X	Protesters burned the American flag and caricatures of the seven world leaders attending the economic summit Sunday, and police said more than 100 were arrested by the time authorities cleared the streets. Some 2,000 demonstrators, carrying placards and colorfully dressed, defied a police ban and attempted to march one mile from the front of the provincial legislature to summit headquarters. They shouted ``Arrest the G-7'' as they went, referring to the summit group of seven countries. Their intent was to deliver a citizens' warrant for the arrest of the seven leaders for alleged crimes against humanity. When police barricaded University Avenue, the broad thoroughfare leading to the summit at Metropolitan Toronto Convention Center, more than 60 demonstrators hurled themselves over crowd-control barricades into the arms of tactical squad officers in dark blue uniforms. The demonstrators espoused a host of causes ranging from opposition to U.S. aid to the Nicaraguan Contra rebels to urging more help for victims of the deadly AIDS disease and saving the rain forest. After they burned the caricatures, flag and three newspaper boxes containing the Wall Street Journal and USA Today, busloads of tactical squad officers linked arm to arm and rushed across the intersection shouting ``move, move, move.'' They arrested those who refused to clear the street. About 30 demonstrators sat on the road singing ``Give Peace a Chance'' and flashing the peace sign. Phalanxes of police scooped them up and dragged them away. Supporters shouted ``the world is watching'' as the dramatic scenes, unprecedented in Toronto, developed. Police Supt. Bob Guay said when it was all over, at least 101 had been arrested and charged with breach of the peace. Organizer James Ensley of the Alliance for Non-Violent Action said: ``I think people are showing today that its wrong for the streets of Toronto to be shut just because seven people come to town.'' Protesters said they were seeking to dramatize their argument that President Reagan and the six other world leaders have been involved in militarism and economic policies that abandoned the poor and the homeless. Reagan arrived here Sunday from Washington to begin a series of talks with the leaders of Canada, Japan, Britain, Italy, France and Germany. The summit is the 14th annual gathering, designed to focus primarily on international economic issues. Police had granted the protesters a permit for a rally, but denied permission for them to march. A police superintendent told them through a loudspeaker, ``This is an unlawful parade. Please disperse.'' One protester shouted, ``These are our streets, man. This isn't Russia.'' Just outside a 15-foot-high chain link fence surrounding the convention center, eight Japanese Buddhist monks wearing yellow robes chanted for peace and pounded drums. They stood under a banner calling for a new human consciousness of non-violence. Gisela Ramacher of West Germany said the protest was a ``special prayer of peace for creating world peace and the victory of non-violence.''
AP901001-0147 	X	President Bush on Monday launched a 35-nation meeting on how to facilitate the growth of freedom and the easing of East-West tensions in Europe. Bush called on the foreign ministers to strengthen the European Security Conference by giving it a permanent secretariat as well as an elections office to supervise the exercise of voting rights in Europe. Just before Bush opened the meeting, which is making arrangements for a summit to be held in Paris Nov. 19-21, the Big Four allies of World War II suspended their last controls over Berlin. In a ceremony capped by a champagne toast, Secretary of State James A. Baker III and Foreign Ministers Douglas Hurd of Britain, Roland Dumas of France and Eduard A. Shevardnadze of the Soviet Union turned over supervision of access to Berlin and the German border to the Germans. Bush called it ``a moving moment,'' and said ``we really rejoice with the German people.'' East Germany will merge formally with West Germany, creating a single, more powerful and prosperous nation at midnight Tuesday. Bush said unification is an expression of the human rights and fundamental freedoms set down in the 1975 Helsinki agreement produced by the European Security Conference. Depending on the decisions taken by the foreign ministers, the Paris summit is expected to establish a new structure to bridge East and West and also a treaty to cut U.S. and Soviet weapons in Europe. Bush, after a meeting with Shevardnadze, said the Soviet minister was confident the accord would be ready for signing in Paris. ``I came out of the meeting encouraged also in asking for flexibility so these negotiators can polish off the remaining differences,'' Bush said. Baker and Shevardnadze made headway in two meetings last week and will meet here again Wednesday. Meanwhile, the administration gave its support to full membership for the three Baltic republics and said Albania may be allowed to participate as an observer.
AP881213-0117 	X	Two new situation comedies starring Mary Tyler Moore and Dick Van Dyke, respectively, are gone from CBS' schedule, the network announced Tuesday in a schedule shakeup that dumps two of the three CBS shows produced by Grant Tinker's GTG Entertainment. The network, which has ranked last in the ratings so far this season, said ``Annie McGuire,'' starring Miss Moore, would have its last broadcast in its Wednesday time period on Dec. 28, suggesting it might be brought back in the future. But the network said ``The Van Dyke Show'' and ``Raising Miranda,'' the GTG shows, would have their final broadcasts this month. ``Dirty Dancing,'' a half-hour show based on the hit movie of the same name will go ``on hiatus'' in January. ``Simon & Simon,'' the long-running, on-again, off-again detective series, has its last broadcast in its Saturday time period on Dec. 31. CBS left the door open to reviving it yet again. GTG Entertainment was established by former NBC chairman and MTM Productions head Grant Tinker in partnership with Gannett. Tinker founded MTM Productions with his then-wife, Mary Tyler Moore. The third GTG show for CBS, the critically praised ``TV101,'' an hourlong, teen-appeal drama, is being moved next month from its low-rated Tuesday time slot to Wednesday in place of the Moore and Van Dyke shows. GTG has also not fared well with its only other current TV enterprise, the syndicated newsmagazine show ``USA Today: The Television Show,'' though the company insists it is sticking by that show for the long haul. In the most recent ratings from the A.C. Nielsen Co., ``Annie McGuire'' and ``The Van Dyke Show'' were the lowest-rated network shows of the week. ``Raising Miranda'' was the third lowest-rated show last week. Both ``Annie McGuire'' and ``The Van Dyke Show'' had problems from the start. Both pilots were re-shot and the Moore show was partially recast. They then emerged to almost universally negative reviews, even though their stars are two of the most popular sitcom performers ever. Moore and Van Dyke co-starred in ``The Dick Van Dyke Show'' in the 1960s, and Moore starred as Mary Richards in ``The Mary Tyler Moore Show'' in the 1970s. CBS announced that ``Tour of Duty,'' a Vietnam series, will return to the schedule Tuesday at 8 p.m. EST. ``Dolphin Cove,'' starring Frank Converse as a dolphin researcher in Australia, will join the schedule in January in place of ``Dirty Dancing'' and ``Raising Miranda'' on Saturday night. The Smothers Brothers will also return to the schedule for four shows in January and February.
AP880703-0011 	X	A TWA jetliner bound for New York returned to Cairo International Airport after taking off Sunday because a telephone caller claimed there was a bomb on board, an airport official said. The official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the jet returned to the air at 1 p.m. (6 a.m. EDT), 5{ hours later, after the plane was evacuated and its passengers and luggage searched. No bomb was found. He said someone called minutes after the plane took off for Paris en route to New York. The anonymous caller said there was a bomb on the plane and hung up. The official said 156 passengers of various nationalities were aboard the plane. He said one American woman refused to get back on the plane.
AP901215-0008 	X	Activists of the environmental group Greenpeace strung up an anti-nuclear banner between the towers of the famous Notre Dame cathedral after other members were arrested near a French nuclear test site in the South Pacific. The banner reading ``No to nuclear tests'' was put up at around 11 a.m. Friday and removed without incident about two hours later. Several activists were involved, and no arrests were reported. The environmentalists were protesting the arrest of five Greenpeace members whose inflatable craft entered restricted waters around Mururoa atoll in the south Pacific, where France conducts nuclear tests. They were collecting plankton specimens to determine if they were affected by radiation from the nuclear tests. The captain and four crew members of the Rainbow Warrior II, the craft's mother ship, are being held in French Polynesia. They were to face police charges for illegally entering Mururoa's waters.
AP900703-0025 	X	Big Bird was there, and Fozzie Bear, and Oscar the Grouch, as more than 1,400 colleagues, family and fans paid tribute to Muppet creator Jim Henson in a verdant St. Paul's Cathedral. England was a second home to Henson, who died in May at the age of 53. ``He loved England and the English; we claim him as ours,'' said Duncan Kenworthy, chief of Henson Productions in Britain. For the tribute, the cathedral was transformed to resemble a north London parkland Henson loved. The 17th-century building was festooned with greenery, its aisles full of Henson's creatures and portraits of their creator. Friends and colleagues of Henson had worked into the night adorning the cathedral with garlands, plants and birches. A May 21 memorial for Henson at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York included a Dixieland band and Muppets singing their way through the crowd. Henson died May 16 in New York of pneumonia. Henson's family asked well-wishers not to wear black, saying the event would be as much a celebration and thanksgiving for Henson's life as a traditional memorial service. ``He has left a heritage that will never be forgotten. Jim Henson will always be with us,'' said Lord Lew Grade. It was Grade who contracted Henson in 1976 to make 24 half-hour episodes of ``The Muppet Show'' after the Muppeteer failed to find American backing for the variety show. The show became one of the most widely seen television programs in the world, with an estimated 235 million viewers in 100 countries. Most of Henson's films were made in Britain as well. Henson owned a home in north London's leafy Hampstead district, across the street from the onetime Victorian post office housing the Creature Shop where his puppets are made. Muppet performer Richard Hunt led a quartet in a medley of Henson's favorite songs. Henson's wife Jane and four of his five children attended. ```When I was young, my ambition was to be one of the people who makes a difference in this world,''' daughter Cheryl, 29, recited from an essay written by her father. ```My hope still is to leave this world a little bit better than it was when I got here.''' ``We really feel he did leave the world a bit better,'' she told the congregation. ``So, thanks.''
AP901203-0216 	X	EDITOR'S NOTE - Fifty years ago Adolf Hitler decided to take his biggest gamble of World War II, the invasion of the Soviet Union. It was an action that helped lead to the collapse of the Third Reich and left the Soviet Union in control of Eastern Europe all the way to the Elbe River in central Germany. Here's a retrospective on what was going on in Berlin and Moscow during those crucial months before the invasion.
AP900909-0036 	X	The discovery of a clandestine mass grave containing more than 1,700 bodies, some apparently of political opponents of Brazil's former military rulers, has stirred many painful memories. Although an amnesty passed by the former military dictatorship bars trying anyone for involvment in the deaths, activists are demanding a full investigation. ``The construction of a state of law and democracy demands the truth ... is fully told,'' said a statement issued last week by two human rights groups. ``This necessity is even greater in Brazil because the amnesty eliminated the possibility that those responsible for torture and assassinations would be held accountable for their actions,'' the statement said. The grave, discovered Tuesday in Perus on the outskirts of Sao Paulo, contained mostly the remains of paupers. But an estimated 50 of the dead are believed to be former enemies of the military government that ruled from 1964 to 1985. Some of the skeletons unearthed had damaged skulls from gunshot wounds to the head, and human rights officials say the people were summarily executed. A pacemaker and platinum dental work also indicated that not all the remains were those of paupers. Sao Paulo Mayor Luiza Erundina said records at three other city graveyards would be checked this week to see if other military ``enemies'' were buried there. Unlike some South American countries, Brazil never fully investigated human rights abuses that occurred under military rule. In Argentina, a full public accounting of the crimes of the 1976-1982 dictatorship took place. Five former junta members later were found guilty of murder and human rights violations. Uruguay returned to civilian rule in 1985 after nine years of military dictatorship. A nationwide referendum was held there on revoking the military's self-approved amnesty, and after much public debate the amnesty was narrowly upheld. Brazil's dictatorship was not as brutal as some in the region, but it systematically violated human rights. Rights groups say about 200 people were killed in Brazil, 150 disappeared and thousands were tortured. Many people with leftist sympathies were exiled. However, a key to the 1985 return of civilian rule, which was negotiated among the generals and civilian politicians, was the understanding there would be no investigations or trials of former military officials. ``That agreement allowed the civilians to take charge and provided them with some stability,'' said political science professor David Fleischer, who worked in Brazil's Senate during the transition period. ``But it also had a negative side: The military maintained great influence, and there was no definitive rupture with the past,'' he said. One direct result was that hundreds of those directly involved in torture and human rights violations retained their positions in the police and armed forces. President Fernando Collor de Mello, who took office in March as Brazil's first directly elected president since 1960, promised to abolish the National Intelligence Service, the former dictatorship's secret police force, which was involved in repression of civilians. Instead, he renamed the agency and put a civilian in charge, but it continues to spy on the population. Some people hope the discovery of the mass grave leads to a renewed interest in fully airing abuses committed during the military rule. ``The truth is a moral sanction,'' wrote prominent political columnist Clovis Rossi in the Folha de Sao Paulo newspaper. ``The widows, the orphans and the brothers and sisters of the victims have the right to know who killed their loved ones.''
AP900509-0064 	X	Fierce shelling today by the forces of rival Christian leaders Gen. Michel Aoun and Samir Geagea killed 20 people and wounded 41, police said. The barrages came after Aoun threatened to attack ships using ports controlled by Geagea. On Tuesday night, 11 people died and 21 were wounded in fighting. The casualties raised the overall toll to 972 killed and 2,564 wounded since the showdown for dominance of the Christian enclave north of Beirut broke out Jan. 30. Tuesday's deaths included Brig. Gen. Francois Zein, commander of the military academy in the Aoun-held Fayadiyeh suburb east of Beirut. Zein, 47, was killed when his office at the academy was hit in a barrage fired by Geagea's Lebanese Forces militiamen. Aoun's threat to attack ports controlled by Geagea was aimed at cutting off supplies for Geagea's Lebanese Forces militia. A communique issued by Aoun's headquarters warned ``local and international maritime agencies'' against serving any port along the 28-mile stretch of Mediterranean coast in the enclave. Geagea's headquarters said in a communique the warning was ``illegal because it was issued by an illegitimate side that usurped power.'' The communique pledged ``severe response to any attack on a civilian ship.'' Smoke billowed from east Beirut's district of Ashrafiyeh, Geagea's main stronghold, and the pinewoods of the Metn mountains, where Aoun's troops are entrenched. The thuds of exploding shells echoed across Beirut as radio stations interrupted regular programming to report on the developments and blare appeals from hospitals for blood donations to cope with the influx of casualties. Geagea controls Beirut harbor and the ports of Jounieh and Byblos north of the capital. Jounieh, 12{ miles from Beirut, is the terminal for a ferry and a hydrofoil from Cyprus. These vessels are the Christians' only outlet from their enclave, which is ringed on its land sides by hostile Syrian troops and their Moslem militia allies. Aoun's 19,000-man army controls only a three-mile strip of the Christian coast and he is not believed to have any working gunboats left from the heavy fighting with Geagea's militia of 6,000 fighters and thousands of reservists. He has heavy artillery in the mountains overlooking Beirut and the coast and has used it to fire on Geagea's flotilla of gunboats and armed speedboats. But the guns are not radar-controlled and the police spokesman noted: ``It will be extremely difficult for Aoun's gunners to hit mobile targets, especially speedboats.'' The communique said Aoun declared the coast between Christian east Beirut and the Madfoun bridge in north Lebanon a military operations zone. ``Sailing across it is banned to any vessel irrespective of its type or cargo,'' the communique said. Geagea ordered his flotilla to blockade Aoun's only sea outlet at Dbaye, north of Beirut, on April 23 in an effort to prevent the general shipping in weapons and ammunition. President Elias Hrawi and Prime Minister Salim Hoss drove to the Syrian capital, Damascus, for talks with President Hafez Assad on ways of implementing a peace plan to end Lebanon's 15-year-old Christian-Moslem civil war. Aoun has rejected the Arab League-brokered peace plan, endorsed by Lebanon's Parliament in the Saudi Arabian resort of Taif in October, because it does not guarantee the withdrawal of Syrian forces from Lebanon. Syria, the main power broker in Lebanon, maintains 40,000 troops in predominantly Moslem regions under a 1976 Arab League peacekeeping mandate. Aoun calls them an occupying army. He also refuses to recognize Hrawi's election to implement the peace plan. But Geagea has recognized Hrawi and cautiously accepted the peace plan, which calls for an equal distribution of power between Moslems and Christians.
AP900525-0253 	X	Too much rain kept corn futures prices growing Friday and new forecasts called for no change in the soggy conditions that have stalled spring planting in the Midwest. Other grain and soybean futures also advanced on the Chicago Board of Trade. On other commodity markets, cocoa futures retreated; livestock and meat futures rose; precious metals were mixed; and oil futures were mixed. Corn futures settled 1 cent to 5 cents higher in Chicago with the contract for delivery in July at $2.84 a bushel. The July contract's gains totaled 9\ cents in the three days ending Friday. Wheat futures settled { cent lower to 3 cents higher with July at $3.30 a bushel; oats were 1\ cents to 2 cents higher with July at $1.54{ a bushel; soybeans were 1 cent to 3} cents higher with July at $6.19 a bushel. Forecasts for scattered showers in the Corn Belt well into next week ``overwhelmed everything else'' in the corn market Friday, said Victor Lespinasse, an assistant vice president in the grain trading division of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. ``It's wet, it's been wet and it looks like it's going to continue to be wet,'' he said. After the close, the National Weather Service released a six-to-10-day forecast predicting wetter-than-normal conditions in the Midwest from May 31 through June 4. ``It looks like a real soggy run for the eastern Corn Belt,'' said Richard Feltes, director of commodity research with the futures brokerage Refco Inc. About 20 percent of the nation's corn crop remains to be planted, Lespinasse said. If farmers don't get the seed into the ground within the next 10 days, yield losses are likely, he said. That propect was reflected in steeper losses in the new-crop corn contracts than in the July contract, which represents the last of the old-crop corn. The pattern was reversed in the soybean market, reflecting the possibility that farmers will plant soybeans on acres they had planned to sow with corn. Cocoa futures fell sharply on New York's Coffee, Sugar & Cocoa Exchange, erasing Thursday's gains as traders took profits ahead of the long holiday weekend. Prices climbed to new 14-month highs on Thursday and surged again in early trading Friday on news of a customs workers strike in the Ivory Coast, the world's biggest cocoa producer. Traders quickly discounted the importance of the strike, though, since most of the available Ivory Coast cocoa already has been shipped. Cocoa settled $25 to $30 lower with July at $1,464 per ton. Most livestock and meat futures rose moderately on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange in pre-weekend position-evening after several days of weakness, especially in pork futures. After the close, the Agriculture Department released a monthly report that showed 102.2 million pounds of pork bellies in the nation's commercial freezers. The number was near market expectations. Live cattle futures settled .02 cent to .25 cent higher with June at 73.52 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .07 cent lower to .13 cent higher with August at 83.77 cents a pound; live hogs were .10 cent to .37 cent higher with June at 65.95 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .12 cent to .38 cent higher with July at 65.85 cents a pound. Gold futures rose modestly on New York's Commodity Exchange on light volume, supported in part by slight weakness in the dollar. The advance extended the market's recovery from Wednesday's plunge of more than $11 an ounce. Gold futures settled $1.50 to $1.90 higher with June at $368.40 a troy ounce; silver was 1.3 cents to 1.5 cents higher with May at $5.215 a troy ounce. Energy futures ended mixed on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Near-term crude oil deliveries finished slightly lower after a burst of buying early in the session that analysts linked to bullish chart signals. West Texas Intermediate crude oil settled 5 cents lower to 12 cents higher with July at $17.80 a barrel; heating oil was .15 cent to .38 cent lower with June at 49.66 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was .40 cent lower to .18 cent higher with June at 63.41 cents a gallon.
AP881028-0341 	X	American Hoist & Derrick Co. said Friday it has entered into a definitive agreement to buy all the stock of Denver-based CoastAmerica Corp. for $10.50 a share or $110 million. Under the deal, American Hoist will begin a cash tender offer within five business days, followed by a cash merger at $10.50 for each share not previously tendered. CoastAmerica said the holders of 63 percent of its outstanding shares have agreed to tender their stock in the offer. ``This represents a unique opportunity to realize in one transaction our plan of creating a national hardware distribution company,'' said Robert H. Nassau, Amhoist's president and chief executive officer. Nassau said the acquisition will combine three of the nation's leading hardware suppliers. ``Our Farwell, Ozmun, Kirk & Co. hardware distribution business, CoastAmerica and Globe all have demonstrated their abilities in certain regions of the country,'' he said. Richard H. Bard, chairman and president of CoastAmerica, said, ``Our buying power will be enhanced and our true national presence will increase our growth opportunities.'' CoastAmerica is in the process of completing its acquisition of Globe Distribution, a privately held distributor based in Lincoln, R.I., Amhoist said. Globe, a distributor of automotive products, including hardware and paint, will become part of Amhoist after CoastAmerica is acquired, Amhoist said. The acquisition, when complete, will make Amhoist's distribution business the fifth largest wholesale hardware distributor in the United States and the largest that is not dealer-owned, Amhoist said. It said that after the acquisition, it will have annual sales of more than $800 million.
AP880218-0060 	X	The main opposition party urged Chancellor Helmut Kohl to dismantle some nuclear missiles before the new U.S.-Soviet arms treaty is ratified, as the Kremlin has done. East Germany's state-run news agency ADN reported that Soviet SS-12 missiles in Waren, an East German site northwest of Berlin, were dismantled, put in crates and were ready for transport back to the Soviet Union. The SS-12s are part of the U.S.-Soviet agreement last December to eliminate medium-range and shorter-range missiles within three years. The treaty applies to nuclear missiles with a range of 300 to 3,000 miles. Hermann Scheer, disarmament expert for West Germany's opposition Social Democrats, told reporters that Kohl's government should respond to the Soviet move with the early scrapping of West Germany's 72 Pershing 1A missiles. ``Such a reaction would be equal to developing trust in disarmament which the leadership in East Berlin has been working toward with the Soviets,'' Scheer said, speaking on behalf of the party. East German newspapers praised Soviet plans for early removal of the SS-12 missiles from Waren. ``Soviet missile troops preparing withdrawal from the DDR (East Germany). Troops in Waren dismantle medium-range rockets earlier than expected,'' the Communist party's official newspaper, New Germany, said in banner headlines Wednesday. ADN did not say how many missiles had been dismantled or when they would be returned to the Soviet Union, only that Soviet soldiers ``are making the last preparations to return their SS-12 rockets.'' ``With this step we can make an important contribution toward disarmament even before the treaty between the United States and the Soviet Union is ratified,'' ADN said. The East Berlin-based newspaper Berliner Zeitung said Wednesday: ``Removal of missile troops from the DDR (East Germany) starts earlier than expected.'' President Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev signed the superpower treaty in Washington last December. Kohl had announced beforehand that West Germany would scrap its Pershing 1A missiles if a treaty was agreed upon. West Germany owns the Pershing 1A missiles, but the United States controls the nuclear warheads for the rockets. Three U.S. Senate committees are debating the treaty and ratification may come this summer. The Supreme Soviet, the Soviet Union's parliament, is expected to approve the accord. East German leader Erich Honecker said in January that Soviet intermediate-range rockets based in his country could be removed ahead of schedule, but at the time he gave no specific timetable. According to figures released after the treaty was signed, 22 rockets, 12 launchers, nine transport vehicles and seven practice missiles were stationed at the Waren site, which holds the largest numbers of SS-12s in East Germany. There are three other SS-12 rocket sites in the country. The city of Waren is 90 miles northwest of Berlin.
AP881023-0023 	X	When Baltimore Symphony Orchestra players laid down their instruments in favor of picket signs a month ago, they were following a long tradition of militancy among symphony orchestra musicians. In the past 10 years, the 31 major orchestras in the United States have struck or been locked out 28 times, according to the American Symphony Orchestra League. ``Musicians in general traditionally have been the most militant of the various entertainment groups,'' said Leonard Leibowitz, an attorney who represents Baltimore Symphony members and the American Federation of Musicians. ``Symphony musicians in particular have probably been one of the most militant.'' The Baltimore orchestra has gone on strike three times and been locked out by management once in the past 20 years, said John Gidwitz, symphony executive director. The San Francisco Symphony walked out for 12 days in January and the Utah Symphony Orchestra struck for nearly a month this fall. Leibowitz attributed the musicians' feistiness to several things, including a belief that they should be compensated for the years they have spent, many since childhood, devoted to their art, and their view that working in the orchestra is a career, not a stepping stone to individual acclaim. ``For us, the big break is to crack a major symphony orchestra,'' said Charles Underwood, BSO violinist. Gidwitz attributed the strikes to a history of inadequate wages that musicians reversed by walking off the job. ``I hope and guardedly believe as musicians start to attain more reasonable salaries we will collectively find less disruptive ways of settling labor contracts,'' he said. Utah Symphony Orchestra executive director Paul Chummers blamed ``unrealistic expectations'' by musicians, who he said don't realize the precarious financial state in which many orchestras exist. The symphony league lists 13 orchestras that are in financial trouble, including Phoenix, Denver, Detroit, Houston and Columbus, Ohio. Chummers said symphonies commonly earn half their costs from ticket sales and depend on donations for the rest. A symphony's labor problems rarely alienate audiences. The Baltimore symphony has not lost community support during the strike, Gidwitz said. Unless a strike lasts the entire season, patrons usually return quickly, Leibowitz said. The Baltimore contract expired Sept. 17. Informal contact between both sides continues but no negotiations have been scheduled. In San Francisco, musicians walked out during the last two contract negotiations, this year and for two weeks in the 1985-86 season. ``Sometimes it seems you need a strike just to get the other side serious about negotiating,'' said Tom Hemphill, chairman of the San Francisco Symphony players' committee. For the BSO, the strike follows four years of harmony between management and musicians _ a relationship that has created a world-class reputation, both sides said. Broadcasting and recording contracts and European tours brought good reviews, and a $40 million fund-raiser recently put the orchestra on sound financial footing. Because of that, the dissonance that creeps into both sides' rhetoric is almost always balanced with at least a token note of respect for the adversary. The 96 players walked off the stage after their Sept. 23 performance, rejecting management's final offer of a $4.2 million, three-year package that would have raised salaries by $25 a week in the first year, from $770 to $795. The union was seeking $1,015 weekly by the end of the 1988-89 season. The orchestra offered $980 by the end of the 1991-92 season, said Richard Hafetz, attorney for symphony management. The union wants to be paid the average of its peer orchestras, including so-called second-tier groups such as San Francisco, St. Louis and Houston. Management said its offer would bring salaries in line with the group, because it totals more than the contract Houston players recently signed. The offer is about $200 less a week than San Francisco musicians earn.
AP880508-0037 	X	A group of federal regulators working on ways to prevent another stock market crash appears certain to clash with activist members of Congress who want to do more than the anti-regulation Reagan administration. The group, appointed in mid-March, is chaired by Treasury Under Secretary George D. Gould and includes the heads of the Federal Reserve Board, Securities and Exchange Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission. According to two sources familiar with its deliberations, the focus of group's recommendations is likely to be improved communication and cooperation among both exchanges and regulatory agencies rather than jurisdictional changes requiring new legislation. If that is the case, it will not satisfy either Sen. William Proxmire, D-Wis., chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, or Rep. Edward J. Markey, D-Mass., chairman of the finance subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. However, one of the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, cautioned that the Gould group's positions were still fluid and could change before it reports to President Reagan the week of May 16. And, pressure on the group to recommend more than it apparently had intended increased on two fronts last week. An earlier White House panel, headed by Wall Street investment banker Nicholas F. Brady, issued a statement warning that regulatory turf fights should not be permitted to sidetrack market reform, which it said ``will inevitably require legislation.'' And, according to one of the sources, SEC Chairman David S. Ruder has made it clear he will stake out an independent position if the Gould group's final report does not go far enough. Ruder has urged that his own agency, which regulates the stock markets, be given additional authority over stock index futures, which currently fall under the jurisdiction of the Commodities Futures Trading Commission. At the very least, he wants ``tie-breaking'' authority to resolve disputes during emergencies, such as the record Oct. 19 decline of 508 points in the Dow Jones average. Both CFTC Chairwoman Wendy L. Gramm and Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan are opposing jurisdictional changes. Proxmire has introduced a bill that would create a three-member committee to coordinate regulation. It would consist of the chairmen of the SEC, CFTC and the Federal Reserve. The Fed chairman would head the committee, but disputes would be resolved by majority vote. Markey's staff is still working on legislation and is unlikely to be finished before the Gould group reports to the president, according to an aide, who asked not to be identified by name. However, Markey has said the SEC, not the CFTC, should regulate stock index futures. The administration working group appears likely to recommend only one of the changes sought by legislators and the Brady panel: brief, coordinated ``circuit breakers'' to break the momentum of a soaring or plunging market, one of the sources said. Agreement on margin levels _ the amount of money required to make an investment in either the stock or futures markets _ was ``still within the realm of possibility'' but less likely because of strong disagreement between Ruder and Gramm, the source said. Futures margins are higher than they were before the Oct. 19 stock market crash, but Ruder has said further increases are needed. Gramm, reflecting the views of the industry her agency regulates, has resisted. The Federal Reserve sets stock and stock option margins, while the individual futures exchanges set their own margins. According to the source, Treasury Department officials also believe ideally that stock and option exchanges ought to set their own margins. However, the Brady panel in its statement last week said margin-setting was too important to leave to the exchanges. It said the Fed is the logical agency to set all equity margins to ensure their harmony with one another. According to Markey's aide, the Massachusetts congressman sides with the Brady panel on that issue and is considering including in any legislation a direction that stocks and futures margins be not just harmonious, but equivalent. That would be controversial. Gramm and executives of the Chicago futures exchanges argue that stock and futures margins serve different purposes and need not be the same. Other tentative provisions of Markey's bill would give the SEC power to impose trading halts and take other action during market emergencies. The legislation also is likely to prohibit cross-market front-running. Some brokerage firms have been accused of profiting in either the stock or futures market by trading for their own accounts in front of a major trade by a big client like a mutual or pension fund in the other market. The Gould group from the start faced criticism from Proxmire and Markey that it was little more than a delaying tactic by the administration, anxious to avoid any additional regulation of the markets. They believe Congress must get moving this spring before its members become preoccupied with the summer political conventions and their own re-election campaigns in the fall. However, the participation of Brady on the side of Proxmire and Markey has made the debate more complicated than a dispute between Democrats and Republicans. Brady, a former Republican senator from New Jersey, is a close adviser to Vice President George Bush and is considered a leading candidate for Treasury secretary should Bush win the presidential election in November. Republican staffers are assisting Democratic aides in drafting House legislation, although it is unclear what parts Republicans will ultimately support, according to the Markey aide. In the Senate, Brady's backing helped Proxmire obtain more Republican co-sponsors than Democratic. Five Republicans and three Democrats have signed on.
AP900426-0062 	X	Sotheby's, departing from its role as an auction house, is financing the $142.8 million purchase of the contents of a distinguished New York art gallery. Sotheby's has agreed to finance the purchase of the Pierre Matisse Gallery, one of the foremost inventories of 20th-century art, in an agreement with art dealer William Acquavella, said Diana C. Brooks, president of Sotheby's in North America. The gallery was founded by Pierre Matisse, the son of painter Henri Matisse. Its inventory has 2,300 works by artists such as Joan Miro, Marc Chagall and Alberto Giacometti. Acquavella will be managing partner of the joint venture company, which will be called Acquavella Modern Art, The New York Times reported today. Acquavella said he plans to sell the paintings privately over a period of time. Until now, Sotheby's has represented sellers and has not owned most of the works it has sold. But with this move, Sotheby's acquires a substantial inventory of artwork and enters the gallery business. Sotheby's has expanded its operations in the art world since real estate tycoon A. Alfred Taubman bought it in 1983. The auction house in 1988 started Sotheby's Financial Services, a subsidiary that lends money to sellers, buyers and owners of art. More recently Sotheby's has offered guaranteed minimum prices for consigned pieces of art, even if the work does not sell at auction. ``I think once more it is another confirmation that Sotheby's has really become an art dealer,'' David P. Tunick, a New York art dealer and board member of the Art Dealers Association of America, told the Times. ``To any longer describe themselves as an objective middleman is wrong.''
AP901220-0102 	X	California's civil rights commission may not award damages for emotional distress or other personal harm caused by job discrimination, the state Supreme Court ruled today. The 5-2 ruling eliminates the Fair Employment and Housing Commission's ability to order damages for bias victims who commonly suffer no losses in salary but sue for the trauma and humiliation caused by employers' mistreatment. Those victims of sexual or racial harassment could still go to court and sue for a full range of damages. But suits are available only to those who can afford a lawyer. The court said the commission was authorized only to order back pay and reinstatement for wrongfully fired employees and to require employers to take steps to prevent future discrimination. In a separate decision today, the court said discrimination victims were not required to file claims with the state before suing in court. The rulings come three years after the court prohibited the same commission from awarding punitive damages in flagrant cases of job discrimination. In that time, the Legislature has passed bills establishing the commission's authority to award both kinds of damages, but Gov. George Deukmejian vetoed them. Today's ruling was based on an interpretation of current state law and left open the possibility that the Legislature could pass a new law allowing the commission to award damages. But the opinion by Justice Edward Panelli hinted that unlimited damage awards by the commission, even if authorized by state law, might be found unconstitutional as a violation of the right to a jury trial. A jury in a court case ``is in the best position to determine just compensation for emotional and mental distress,'' Panelli wrote. The ruling overturned a $20,000 damage award by the commission to Rose Brown, a secretary for the Peralta Community College District in Oakland. She claimed she was fired in April 1981 for refusing sexual advances by an administrator at Laney College.
AP900118-0207 	X	The Kremlin Wednesday authorized the thousands of soldiers it sent to the Caucasus to open fire if necessary on Armenians and Azerbaijanis fighting in the hills near the disputed territory of Nagorno-Karabakh. Thousands of Armenian refugees poured from the southern republic of Azerbaijan, many beaten or chased from their homes by angry mobs. Some blamed the attacks on Azerbaijanis who earlier fled ethnic violence in Armenia. The death toll rose to 58, mostly Armenians, and the number of injured to 169 in five days of civil warfare, an Interior Ministry official said. Four burned bodies were found in Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan, the official news agency Tass said Wednesday. Eighteen Armenian residents were injured in Azerbaijan in the past 24 hours.
AP880722-0272 	X	General Motors Corp. and industry analysts credit the automaker's 29 percent increase in its second-quarter earnings to a return to profitability in its North American automaking business and continued strong results overseas. GM barely broke even building cars and trucks in North America in 1987, reaping $3.56 billion in 1987 profit from accounting changes, tax benefits and record contributions from its streamlined overseas businesses and its subsidiaries. But second-quarter revenue for the nation's biggest automaker rose 12 percent to $29.9 billion from $26.7 billion a year ago, breaking the previous quarterly record of $27.6 billion set in 1986 when the auto industry set a 16.3 million-vehicle annual sales record. GM reported net earnings of $1.5 billion, or $4.52 a common share, up from $1.17 billion, or $3.39 a common share, in the second quarter a year ago. ``It was a good quarter. The number of units produced per employee went up almost 17 percent versus second-quarter last year. That's phenomenally good, showing the kind of earnings General Motors can have if sales pick up,'' said Ronald Glantz, analyst with Montgomery Securities Inc. in San Francisco. Car and light truck sales in 1988 have continued to surge well ahead of pessimistic predictions issued in the wake of the October 1987 stock market crisis. Expectations for the year have risen to a consensus of about 15.6 million vehicles, and GM has benefited from the industry's surprisingly strong performance. ``Last year, (sales) volume was so low that most of their gains came from accounting changes. This year, it seems based on volume. Sales were strong in the first half, particularly in the second quarter,'' said Kathleen Heaney, analyst with Nikko Securities International in New York. Second-quarter revenue rose 12 percent from a year ago and broke the previous GM record for any quarter of $27.6 billion set in 1986, GM said. The earnings were the best for any quarter since second quarter 1984. GM also said that as of June 30, it had shaved $2.7 billion of the $4 billion it plans to trim from its costs during 1988. In the second quarter, operating income rose 64 percent, to $1.75 billion from $1.07 billion a year earlier. It rose 16 percent in the first six months, to $2.4 billion from $2.08 billion a year ago. GM said the improvement came both from a return to stronger profitability in North America and overseas performance stronger than last year's record. However, GM said it does not provide income for different geographic areas on a quarterly basis. GM's worldwide vehicle sales rose 9.3 percent in the second quarter, to 2.25 million. At the end of the second quarter, GM's North American-built cars and light trucks held 35.1 percent of the U.S. market, up slightly from 33.8 percent at the end of June 1987. In the first six months of 1988, GM earnings rose 13.3 percent to $2.6 billion, or $7.63 a share, on revenue of $56.34 billion from $2.29 billion, or $6.65 a share, on revenue of $52.8 billion a year ago. On Wednesday, GM reported earnings by its three subsidiaries _ General Motors Acceptance Corp., Electronic Data Systems Corp., and GM Hughes Electronics Corp. GM blamed higher interest expenses and a drop in auto financings for an 18.9 percent drop in GMAC earnings. Second-quarter earnings for EDS and Hughes were up 33 percent and 16.4 percent, respectively.
AP900830-0044 	X	A cult leader risks the death penalty after being convicted of murdering a family of five at a communal farm in what disciples said was a soul-cleansing ritual. Jeffery Lundgren, 40, was found guilty Wednesday of murder and kidnapping in the 1988 slayings. Earlier in the day, his wife, Alice, was sentenced to five consecutive life terms in prison for her part in the murders. Dennis Avery; his wife, Cheryl, and daughters, ages 7, 13 and 15, were slain at the Lundgrens' rented farm in Kirtland, 30 miles east of Cleveland. They were lured one at a time to a barn, gagged, shot and dumped in a common grave. The bodies were found in January. Fellow cult members testified that the Averys, who also were members of the cult, were slain in a purification ritual in hopes of witnessing the return of Christ. Defense lawyers admitted Lundgren shot the family but said he was guided by his interpretation of the Scriptures. Prosecutor Steven LaTourette said after the verdict, ``I noticed Mr. Lundgren was smiling _ sort of a day-at-the-beach attitude.'' The jury will return Sept. 10 to consider whether he should get life in prison or death in the electric chair. Mrs. Lundgren, 39, was convicted Aug. 1 of conspiracy to commit murder and of kidnapping. After the sentencing, Mrs. Lundgren tearfully told reporters, ``I am not the `Angel of Death.' I am the mother of four.'' She testified she was afraid of her husband. ``I'm not a cold-blooded murderer. He is,'' she said. ``I was found guilty of a crime I had no knowledge would occur.'' Other cult members, however, testified she attended prayer meetings at which the pending murders were discussed. Until 1988, Lundgren was a lay minister for the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints in Kirtland, a town of 6,500. He was defrocked for inappropriate conduct and formed his own sect, based on his interpretation of the Bible and the book of Mormon. Testimony indicated that the Averys were less ardent in their belief and that Lundgren disdained them. The Lundgrens' son, Damon, 19, awaits trial on murder charges. Five other cult members have pleaded guilty and await sentencing; five more await trial.
AP901213-0066 	X	Three homes began sinking in this Southern Illinois community after an old coal mine shaft collapsed, authorities said. No injuries were reported, authorities said. Five homes were evacuated. ``When I got out of the car, I noticed a crack in the concrete (driveway). Then I got inside and heard the house popping. We could feel the house moving,'' said Maxine Smith, who began removing possessions from her home Wednesday evening. Cracks appeared in roads on the south side of this community of about 9,600, said Interim Fire Chief Paul Marlo. In the sinking homes, windows shattered, walls and floors cracked, and floors and pipes burst, residents said. ``The houses are still shifting. We don't have any idea how long it might be. Right now, it's just a waiting game,'' town Superintendent Terry McEvers said late Wednesday. The homes began sinking Wednesday afternoon because of the mine shaft collapse, authorities said. Abandoned mines run underneath much of Southern Illinois, where coal mining is a major industry. ``There's no way of knowing the extent of the damage. The whole area is undermined,'' Marlo said. As a precaution, work crews began draining a 750,000-gallon municipal water tower near the site late Wednesday, authorities said. Service was not affected because the town has another tower. ``Right now, the structure of the tower is sound, but we want to make sure we have no problems,'' McEvers said. Authorities evacuated the three homes which had moved and two across the street as a precautionary measure, Marlo said. ``We thought they'd better go some place else for the night,'' he said.
AP901025-0161 	X	Twenty-five Portuguese stone masons returned to their homeland Thursday after Iraqi authorities allowed them to leave Baghdad. The workers finished contracts last week to install marble in a palace for President Saddam Hussein on the banks of the River Tigris in the Iraqi capital. A spokesman for the group, Joao Cacador, said Baghdad authorities granted exit visas to the Portuguese after the Iraqi company supervising work on palace appealed to Saddam's office on their behalf. Prime Minister Anibal Cavaco Silva, on working visit to Spain, said he was overjoyed to hear the Portuguese men had left Iraq. Iraq has held thousands of foreigners in their country in the aftermath of the Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait, including Westerners in strategic sites thought to be the targets of a possible U.S. attack.
AP880829-0221 	X	Schroeder. They can be reached at 212-621-1852@3. The ``Health Care'' Special Edition contains these stories: b1247 BC-SPE--Health Care: Heart (LaserPhotos NY700, NY701) b1248 BC-SPE--Health Care: With Heart-Aspirin b1249 BC-SPE--Health Care: With Heart-Work b1250 BC-SPE--Health Care: With Heart-Children b1251 BC-SPE--Health Care: Exercise Poll b1252 BC-SPE--Health Care: Cholesterol b1253 BC-SPE--Health Care: Breakfast Cereal b1254 BC-SPE--Health Care: Survey (LaserPhoto NY703) b1255 BC-SPE--Health Care: School Nurse b1256 BC-SPE--Health Care: Anxiety b1257 BC-SPE--Health Care: Nutrition Goals b1258 BC-SPE--Health Care: School Lunches b1259 BC-SPE--Health Care: Youth Fitness b1260 BC-SPE--Health Care: Hearing b1261 BC-SPE--Health Care: Asthma b1262 BC-SPE--Health Care: Fat b1263 BC-SPE--Health Care: Videos (LaserPhoto NY702) b1264 BC-SPE--Health Care: Business Travel b1265 BC-SPE--Health Care: Arthritis b1266 BC-SPE--Health Care: Child Patients b1267 BC-SPE--Health Care: First Aid b1268 BC-SPE--Health Care: Travel-Motion Sickness b1269 BC-SPE--Health Care: Briefs
AP901120-0200 	X	Every week, 115 million chickens are slaughtered to feed the U.S. appetite for cordon bleu, McNuggets and everything in between, according to the National Broiler Council, a poultry industry group. Driven largely by a demand for lower-cholesterol, lower-fat meat, poultry consumption has grown to 73 pounds a year per person, up from 49.7 pounds a decade ago, said Bill Roenigk, vice president for the Washington-based council. Beef consumption has fallen during the same period from 76.4 pounds per person to a projected 67.4 pounds this year. The top 10 broiler chicken producing states, in order, are Arkansas, Georgia, Alabama, North Carolina, Mississippi, Texas, Delaware, Maryland, California and Virginia. About 25,000 farmers raise the chickens, nearly all under contracts with processing companies. Tyson Foods is by far the largest processor, handling 75 million of the 400 million pounds processed weekly, the broiler council said. The next largest are ConAgra, 30 million pounds; Gold Kist, 25 million; Perdue, 25 million; and Pilgrim's Pride, 15 million. Cargill ranks 21st at 4.5 million pounds per week.
AP900116-0153 	X	A Chicago suburb agreed Tuesday to allow contruction of a group home for the retarded in a federal court settlement that may ease efforts to build housing for the handicapped across the nation. Chicago Heights also agreed to pay $45,000 in damages and report for five years all actions affecting housing for the handicapped. ``We hope other communities will get the message that the handicapped have rights under the Fair Housing Act,'' said James P. Turner, acting head of the Justice Department's civil rights division. ``If local officials don't pay attention to those rights, they will pay damages for violating them,'' Turner said. Under the consent decree approved by U.S. District Judge William T. Hart, Chicago Heights agreed to issue a zoning permit before week's end to Residential Facilities Management Services Inc., of Galesburg, Ill. The permit will allow construction of a group home for 15 retarded adults. The agreement settles lawsuits filed June 20 by the Justice Department and the next day by the corporation charging the City Council violated the Fair Housing Act when it voted May 1 to turn down a request for the zoning permit. The lawsuits were the first brought by the government under the Fair Housing amendment enacted last year to protect the handicapped. The lawsuits contended the City Council vote was motivated by opposition from residents prejudiced against the retarded. Chicago Heights, while not admitting to any discrimination, agreed to pay $30,000 to RFMS for construction delays and $1,000 to each of the 15 people who eventually will live in the home. The city contends the permit was denied because RFMS had not supplied necessary documents with its application. ``The fact that the inhabitants happened to be developmentally disabled was not a factor,'' said Chicago Heights lawyer Nick J. DiGiovanni. He said the city agreed to the settlement ``in recognition of the cost saving of not having to go to trial to be vindicated.'' Under the agreement, Chicago Heights officials also must report to the federal government for the next five years any other applications they receive from anyone wanting to operate a facility for the handicapped. They must report within five days any changes made in local laws governing such facilities. RFMS must submit site plans and other documents to the city, and pledge that the home will not be used to care for mentally ill or emotionally disturbed patients. It also must limit the number of residents to 15. Justice Department spokeswoman Deborah Burstion-Wade said the settlement may make it easier for the government to obtain court orders in future cases involving the refusal of local governments to grant permits for group homes. ``Our hope is that this (agreement) will be noted by other communities, not only in the Chicago metropolitan area of Illinois, but nationwide _ that it's impermissible for them to deny access to living accommodations on behalf of developmentally disabled persons,'' said Richard E. Friedman, attorney for RFMS, which operates 55 group homes in 35 other Illinois communities. Group homes for the handicapped, usually established in residential neighborhoods, are designed to encourage independence. Residents live under supervision, but are given greater responsibility for everyday decisions than in other facilities.
AP900911-0015 	X	Animal rights activists have gone to court in an attempt to block the trade of an aggressive dolphin from the New England Aquarium to a secret Navy training center in California. Opponents of the swap claim the Navy trains dolphins for hazardous duty. A lawsuit seeking to block the trade was filed Monday in federal court by Steven Wise, an attorney for Citizens to End Animal Suffering and Exploitation. He said a hearing would be held Wednesday or Thursday. The aquarium wants to trade Rainbow, a 450-pound male, to the Naval Ocean Systems Center in San Diego, Calif., for a partly deaf female dolphin. The Navy center said it trains and studies 142 marine mammals in underwater surveillance and other activities. Opponents say the aquarium lacks the required paperwork for the trade.
AP880425-0215 	X	Government prosecutors said Monday they will oppose a bid to reopen the trial of the ``Sharpeville Six,'' a group of blacks convicted of complicity in a mob killing and sentenced to death. P.J. Van Zyl, registrar of the Pretoria Supreme Court, said the attorney general of Transvaal province had filed a notice of intention to oppose the defense lawyers' application to reopen the trial. He said a ruling was expected May 3. The defendants, five men and a woman, were granted a stay of execution on March 17, the day before they were scheduled to be hanged. The stay was ordered after their lawyers filed papers claiming a key state witness had been coerced by police into giving false testimony. Defense lawyers asked that the trial be reopened to consider that claim and to review the credibility of other state witnesses. Many human rights organizations and Western leaders have appealed to South Africa's white-controlled government to commute the death sentences. The six were convicted of complicity in the September 1984 killing of a black municipal councilor, Kuzwayo Dhlamini, during riots against rent increases in the black township of Sharpeville, south of Johannesburg. But they were not found guilty of physically contributing to Dhlamini's death. They were convicted under the doctrine of common purpose, which holds defendants responsible if they are found to be participants in mob violence. The government has said their conduct inluded throwing stones at Dhlamini, helping set his house afire and slapping a woman who begged the crowd not to burn him. Black government employees frequently are targets of militants battling to overthrow the government and its policy of apartheid. By law and custom, apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. The 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services.
AP880319-0091 	X	Justice Department officials are encouraging federal, state and local prosecution of drug users as an effective way to reduce demand for cocaine, marijuana and other illegal substances. Among the efforts being touted by department officials: _A border-crossing drug arrest program spearheaded by the U.S. attorney's office in San Diego, Calif., is resulting in 10 to 20 drug-carrying motorists a week being arrested by U.S. Customs Service agents and charged with possession under federal drug laws. _A recently enacted New Jersey law revokes the licenses of drivers arrested with drugs in their cars. Also their cars are confiscated and they must perform at least 100 hours of public service work in addition to facing possible conviction for possession, which carries a jail term and a fine. The National Drug Policy Board, a Cabinet-level group chaired by Attorney General Edwin Meese III, Thursday approved a plan under which authorities will arrest and prosecute anyone caught entering the country with illegal drugs, no matter how small the amount. The idea of cracking down on users isn't a new one at the federal level. It has been included in previous Reagan administration anti-drug strategies. But the renewed emphasis on it is recognition that ``we need to focus on the demand for drugs,'' a Justice Department official said last week, speaking on condition of anonymity. ``We're going to hammer this thing into specific ideas and programs.'' Arresting users at the federal level isn't expected to take up a significant portion of resources because they will be ``picked off the fringes'' of cocaine dealing operations and major drug distribution rings already under investigation, says Assistant Attorney General William Weld, head of the Justice Department's criminal division. Weld said the approach will reinforce the point that ``there's no such thing as recreational drug use.'' The border-crossing drug-arrest program in San Diego being pushed by U.S. Attorney Peter Nunez caught 900 people last year, most of whom were permitted to plead guilty to a misdemeanor. They avoided jail time but paid steep fines and many of them were first offenders now saddled with criminal records. ``I think demand for drugs is the problem, not supply,'' says Peter Nunez, the U.S. attorney in San Diego. ``We're trying to figure out a way to get the message across to the users that they are the problem and there are adverse consequences.'' Justice Department officials regard some of the demand-side programs in place in New Jersey under a recently enacted anti-drug law as models that ought to be duplicated elsewhere. A New Jersey drug prevention education fund is financed with drug users' fines. Dealers get extra prison time for selling near schools. And the law's provisions yanking licenses and confiscating cars of those in possession of drugs strikes terror in the hearts of high school students. New Jersey Attorney General Cary Edwards says students' eyes glaze over when he warns them they could go to jail for drug use, an unlikely outcome for young first offenders. But they snap to attention when he tells them they won't be able to drive. ``We have to teach the marginal users not to be users any way we can,'' says Edwards. ``If society believes that law enforcement can stop drug distribution, they're crazy. We have to dry the market up.''
AP900813-0195 	X	Despite Iraqi claims to the contrary, the Iraq economy is weak and ill-prepared to withstand an economic blockade, the Middle East Economic Survey reported today. ``Iraq's financial position was precarious before the invasion and the ending of new hard currency flows will impose severe strains on the Iraqi economy very rapidly,'' said the respected weekly newsletter based in Nicosia. The newsletter disclosed that payments for Iraqi crude delivered even before Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait are being frozen. Payment is normally made by 30-day letters of credit. Iraq's economy depends almost entirely on oil. And the three outlets for Iraqi oil exports, pipelines across Turkey and Saudi Arabia, and shipment by sea direct from an Iraqi terminal at the head of the Gulf, have been blocked. The blocking of oil exports is part of a total trade embargo decreed by a U.N. Security Council resolution after Iraq invaded and then annexed Kuwait. ``Drawing together the available economic indicators, the clear indication is that the Iraqi economy has been deteriorating during the last year,'' the newsletter said. Iraq was becoming more dependent on outside funding after an expensive eight-year war with Iran. In the second half of 1989, a large increase was reported in short-term debt to Western industrialized countries. Also, last year cash aid to Iraq from Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, estimated at $2 billion a year during the war _ which ended in a cease-fire in 1988 _ stopped. In 1989, Iraq had trouble borrowing from commercial banks, according to newsletter. Of a total of $1.6 billion in loans, $1.5 billion was in unauthorized loans from the Atlanta, Ga. branch of the Italian Banca Nazionale del Lavoro. The Middle East Economic survey said it is unlikely that Iraq, even before the embargo, could have found significant untapped sources of new money. ``It is clear that at the present time the Iraqi economy is very vulnerable and that it has little leeway to withstand an economic blockade,'' it said. Iraqi President Saddam Hussein has claimed that Iraq can hold out against the embargo if it conserves supplies. ``Iraq's national wealth is abundant. ... Our supplies of essential needs and food stuffs is great,'' Saddam said in a message broadcast Sunday on Baghdad television. ``Victory is on our side and defeat is certain for the aggessors who have pinned all their hopes to their economic sanctions and to their forces and their useless fleets.'' However, in the same speech he indicated a concern about shortages. He asked Iraqi women not to hoard foodstuffs and to cut back on consumption.
AP881102-0082 	X	The dollar changed little against most major currencies in thin mid-morning trading today, and dealers forecast a steady course before the Nov. 8 presidential election in the United States. Gold prices were higher. Foreign exchange dealers said the dollar bounced back in Europe from lows hit during the Tokyo trading day on support from a third day of intervention from Japan's central bank, the Bank of Japan, and fear of the same by the U.S. Federal Reserve. But they said sentiment remained essentially bearish, although the dollar was unlikely to fall sharply ahead of the U.S. election. ``The nearer we come to the election the calmer the dollar will be,'' said one trader in Milan. In London, the dollar rose against the British pound. One pound cost $1.7695 today, more expensive for buyers than Tuesday's late $1.7668. Other mid-morning dollar rates compared with Tuesday's late rates: _1.7824 West German marks, down from 1.7865 _1.4990 Swiss francs, down from 1.5025 _6.0835 French francs, down 6.0965 _2.0100 Dutch guilders, down from 2.0155 _1,323.85 Italian lire, up from 1,331.50 _1.2270 Canadian dollars, down from 1.2278 Earlier in Tokyo, the dollar closed at 124.68 Japanese yen, down 0.62 yen from late Tuesday. Later, the dollar traded in London at 124.90 yen. Gold opened in London at a bid price of $411.65 a troy ounce, up from $411.25 late Tuesday. At mid-morning, London's five major bullion dealers fixed a recommended gold price of $412.50 a troy ounce. Gold was trading in Zurich at $412.10 a troy ounce today, up from $411.00 Tuesday. Earlier in Hong Kong, gold closed at a bid $413.90, up slightly from Tuesday's $413.89. Silver bullion traded in London at a bid $6.34 a troy ounce, up from $6.28.
AP880528-0196 	X	After Tuesday, American businesses, from the loftiest Fortune 500 company to the smallest corner grocery, won't get just a warning the first time they're caught employing illegal immigrants. Companies tempted to look the other way when illegal aliens apply could face stiff fines, the real teeth in the landmark 1986 immigration reform bill that enters a new phase June 1. The Immigration and Naturalization Service will target key industries, looking for violators. It is a system that has worked in Europe, and many feel it offers the best hope to curb illegal immigration and transfer jobs from aliens to U.S. citizens. But others worry about possible exploitation of illegal workers, discrimination against foreign-appearing workers, the impact on the labor force and the dangers of turning employers into immigration police. Doris Meissner, a former acting INS commissioner, questions whether employer sanctions might ``put into our employment practices a bias toward looking at people's foreignness that never existed before.'' It may be too early to gauge whether that is true, but the monetary impact will certainly be felt right away. After Wednesday, the INS need no longer issue an initial warning citation to employers who hire undocumented workers. The law now requires employers to obtain documents from workers showing they are legally in this country. Employers face fines of up to $1,000 for improper documentation, up to $2,000 per alien for a first offense of knowingly hiring an illegal alien, up to $5,000 per alien for the second offense, $10,000 for subsequent offenses, and $3,000 or six months in jail for a ``pattern or practice'' of violation. Over the past year, INS fined 80 businesses $350,000 and gave 2,000 citations. The agency thus views the new phase not as a dramatic crackdown, but as a nudge to employers. The fines went to companies that got warnings but continued ignoring the law. ``Our intent is not to indiscriminately run around fining employers. The intent is to encourage employers to validate their work force,'' says INS spokesman Duke Austin. ``It'll be a deliberate implementation of the law.'' Although INS is beefing up its investigative force, agents will not be able to inspect every business. Austin says the agency will use its resources ``judiciously,'' targeting the construction, garment and hotel and service industries that have traditionally been repositories of illegal workers. In Europe, where many countries adopted employer sanctions a decade ago, the system did not trigger widespread job discrimination against foreigners, according to a 1987 study by the Center for Immigration Studies, a private think tank that researches immigration trends. The study concluded that cooperation by employers is vital for such a system and said employers would cooperate if the paperwork wasn't burdensome and if enforcement was consistent and certain. ``It's got to take on the aura of the IRS,'' says Vernon M. Briggs Jr., a labor economist at Cornell University. ``Most people are probably reasonably honest in doing their income tax because there's a fair chance they're going to get caught. Everybody worries about the IRS but I don't think anybody is worried about the INS yet.'' Businesses were skeptical last year about the I-9 forms they were required to fill out for workers, a new and costly level of paperwork. Now, they seem less resistant, if still wary. Virginia Lamp Thomas, labor attorney for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, says businesses are ``afraid that the law has significant teeth in it.'' The chamber is conducting a survey to determine how the law is working. Some experts have made preliminary assessments. ``Employer sanctions will probably work best in the larger firms and will work least effectively as you get down to the mom and pop enterprises that don't pay much anyhow and need the cheap (illegal) labor to survive,'' says David Simcox, director of the Center for Immigration Studies. Briggs, the labor economist, says employer sanctions probably will not be very effective because employers really don't have to verify the worker's documents. ``Anything that a worker shows an employer that appears to be reasonable essentially takes the employers off the hook. I think it's likely to make a mockery out of the ability to enforce the bill,'' he says. The amnesty phase of the law, in which illegal aliens who came to the United States before 1982 could apply for temporary residency, enlarged the pool of legal workers available for low-paying jobs. Employers ``have got the windfall of having additional pools of low-wage workers, which means they don't have to modernize or raise wages in order to make jobs more attractive,'' Briggs says. The potential for worker exploitation concerns civil liberties advocates. The law ``grandfathered'' in workers who had jobs on Nov. 6, 1986, the date it was passed. That means that employers did not have to ask those workers for documents, although illegal workers in that category remain subject to deportation if caught by INS. Now, the worry is that those workers can be trapped in their jobs with no redress against an unscrupulous employer. ``Obviously for these employees it totally removes their ability to make any kind of changes. If there is a bad employment situation they'd be very reluctant to change jobs because they don't have documents. It sets up a situation amenable to exploitation,'' says Meissner, now with the Carneigie Endowment for International Peace, which studies foreign policy issues. There is also the issue of job discrimination. The law bars employers from refusing to hire someone because of their national origin or, in the case of someone who has taken steps to become a citizen, his citizenship status. It sets up a special Justice Department counsel to prosecute complaints. So far, 139 discrimination allegations have been filed with that office. Forty-eight have been resolved or are being investigated. Of those, 15 have resulted in formal complaints and 10 have been settled by requiring back pay with offers of employment. But that may not tell the whole story. The law also allows employers to hire U.S. citizens over non-citizens ``if the two individuals are equally qualified.'' ``That's going to make it even more difficult to prove discrimination. `Equally qualified' is to a certain degree subjective,'' says Mario Moreno, of the Mexican-American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, which provides legal assistance to Mexican-Americans and others involved in employment discrimination suits or complaints. The General Accounting Office, an investigative branch of Congress, last fall found little evidence that employers were discriminating against foreign-looking job applicants because of the new law. But those findings are only preliminary. The law was intended to discourage illegal immmigration by drying up the job prospects for such aliens. Whether that will happen remains to be seen. ``There will be some job market for illegals because there will be employers who won't comply,' says Meissner. ``The question then becomes to what extent over time does the government's effort bring about real voluntary compliance on the part of employers and some deterrence.''
AP880229-0153 	X	Here are the latest, unofficial results in the Democratic presidential caucuses Tuesday. The votes in each jurisdiction may differ in meaning, depending on state rules and level of caucus.
AP900319-0010 	X	Occasionally, an art theft reads like the plot from an Ian Fleming thriller in which half-mad billionaires pay slick international thieves to steal famous paintings for their private pleasure. In reality, experts said Monday, most art is stolen to earn a quick buck in an international black market that is second in size only to the drug trade. The priceless art stolen Sunday from the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum is too famous to be sold anywhere, raising the spectre that the pieces could be held hostage for ransom for a fraction of the hundreds of millions of dollars the art world says the paintings are worth. The true scale of the art underworld is difficult to gauge, but investigators say art thievery is increasing as prices for works on the legal market soar. ``There's a lot of it going on,'' said Robert W. Holmes Jr., a Boston attorney specializing in fine art transactions. ``Ninety percent of stolen art is never recovered. There's obviously a market there.'' Rarely, one end of the market is held up by someone who decides to commission the theft of a painting that cannot be legitimately acquired. One such theft occurred in 1983, when thieves stole Italian Renaissance masterpieces, including Raphael's self portrait, from the Hungarian national museum in Budapest. Investigators found that a sophisticated band of Italian art thieves, armed with cutting tools and high-tech alarm-busting devices, executed a perfect break-in and vanished with the works. An extensive dragnet eventually snared the thieves in their home country before they could get the paintings to Greece where, it was later found, an olive oil baron had paid a handsome sum for the sake of having the works hang in his home. ``There aren't many thieves with that sort of expertise,'' said Robert Volpe, a former New York City police detective who worked on the Hungarian case and is now a private consultant tracing stolen art around the world. ``They were capable of stealing anything.'' But most of the black market in art is in lesser-known works usually ranging in value from $100,000 to $300,000. Priceless works such as the Vermeer taken from the Gardner Museum are simply too famous to be sold anywhere. ``It's incredibly stupid to steal a Vermeer or a Rembrandt,'' said Steven Keller, a private security consultant who was brought in as security director at The Art Institute of Chicago after a major theft of three works there by Cezanne in 1979. ``He (the Gardner thief) has got some things that are too hot to handle,'' Keller said. Keller said lesser-known works and prints that could be sold more easily were more valuable to thieves than masterworks that couldn't be fenced. ``You might be able to sell say, a lesser-known American artist's painting in Europe,'' Keller said. ``It's harder to spot them.'' Often, thieves who can't sell stolen art underground hold it ransom for insurance money, a scenario several investigators and curators said was likely in the Gardner theft. Last year, for instance, thieves stole three paintings by van Gogh, demanded a $2.2 million ransom and returned one of the works. The others were later recovered and four people suspected of the theft were arrested. ``It happens, and it happens frequently,'' Holmes said. ``But like any hostage situation, it's got to be outside the public eye, so often these cases go unnoticed.'' Keller, noting the relative worth of the art stolen from the Gardner Museum, said, ``If I were the thief of the Gardner paintings, I'd ship the Vermeer and the Rembrandt back to the museum and go for a ransom on the smaller works.''
AP900803-0149 	X	Iraq jammed short-wave radio broadcasts from Voice of America on Friday, the agency's director said. Two of the six frequencies carrying Arabic-language broadcasts to the Middle East were jammed at 5 p.m. EDT (Midnight in Kuwait), said Richard Carlson, director of the U.S. government's overseas radio broadcasting. The jamming signal, which sounds like someone blowing bubbles, has electronic characteristics indicating it is Iraqi, Carlson said. The two jammed frequencies are broadcast from West Germany and the island of Rhodes off the southwestern coast of Turkey and are the most powerful frequencies beamed to the area, he said. Weaker Arabic signals and English-language broadcasts were not affected, he said. However, ``The BBC has had indications they're being interfered with as well,'' he said. Carlson said Iraqi President Saddam Hussein was ``trying to keep his neighbors and his own people from knowing what is going on.'' He said he did not know how much of the signal was getting through to neighboring countries in the region. Iraq has not jammed VOA signals before, Carlson said. The only other country now jamming VOA is China, he said.
AP880608-0045 	X	Congress today passed a land reform law supporters say will improve the lives of millions of impoverished Filipinos. Critics say the plan could fail unless it is implemented efficiently. President Corazon Aquino, who asked Congress to enact land reform last July, was expected to sign the bill by Friday. Land reform was a chief promise during her 1986 election campaign against ousted President Ferdinand Marcos. The measure gives landowners the choice of dividing their property among tenants or sharing profits with them. It is expected to cost $70 billion and benefit 2 million farmers in this largely agricultural nation of 7,100 islands. Land reform is also considered essential to defeating the 19-year-old communist insurgency, which has its main support in rural areas. ``We are very pleased with the final bill,'' said Rep. Ramon Mitra, speaker of the House of Representatives. ``It is a measure that will change the lives of millions.'' Under the plan, each landowner may retain 12 acres and an additional seven acres for each direct heir over age 15 who will till the land. A landowner also has the option of sharing profits or giving tenants shares of stock instead of physically dividing the property. All but one of the 19 senators present approved the bill late Tuesday. Sen. Vicente Paterno, a landowner, abstained. The other four members left before the vote. The 203-member House of Representatives later passed the measure by a vote of 152-20 with four abstentions. Sen. Heherson Alvarez, a former agrarian reform minister who sponsored the legislation, said it would bring ``democratization of the means of production.'' Rep. Jose Cojuangco, Mrs. Aquino's younger brother, voted in favor despite earlier objections to the plan. ``There are a few sections that have to be amended, but for the first time this bill will really accomplish a genuine land reform,'' he said. The president's family owns a 14,820-acre sugar plantation in Tarlac province north of Manila. Rep. Bonifacio Gillego sponsored the original House bill but withdrew after changes began. He voted against the legislation today and told his colleagues they were ``foisting a grand deception on our people.'' He said the plan would fail if the government does not provide credit, expertise and other assistance to new landholders. He also predicted communist rebels will oppose the plan. ``They will try to expose it as bogus and not genuine, not equitable,'' Gillego told The Associated Press. ``Therefore, they will engage in a vigorous campaign. So the burden is on the government to show it is not bogus.'' Gillego said farmers would oppose the profit-sharing option and it might ``result in agrarian reform, if you will, through a revolution.'' Leftist farmers' groups have said the bill favors landowners. Guillermo Luz, executive director of the influential Makati Business Club, said the government's skill in implementing the program will determine its success or failure. ``The private sector will have to be involved, especially with technical and management expertise and credit,'' he said. ``It will have to devise a system of agricultural credits in the countryside.'' The bill also provides for the transfer to farm workers of tracts of public land greater than 2,470 acres now leased to multinational corporations. Government lands will be the first distributed in the 10-year program. Private holdings of more than 123 acres will be parceled out in the first four years and smaller holdings later. Owners of more than 123 acres will be compensated with 25 percent of the value in cash and those with less than 60 acres will be paid 35 percent in cash. Tax exemptions, shares of stock in government-owned or controlled corporations or Land Bank of the Philippines bonds will make up the rest of the compensation. Officials say the program will be financed by foreign aid and assets of Marcos and his allies that were seized on grounds they were illegally acquired. Marcos governed the Philippines for 20 years but was driven from the country in February 1986 by a civilian-military uprising that brought Mrs. Aquino to power. The Philippines has attempted about a dozen land reform programs in this century, but they have largely failed due to lack of funds and resistance from landowners. ``Genuine'' land reform was among the demands of pro-Soviet Huk rebels in the 1950s and early 1960s and is a principal goal of communist rebels who launched their current insurgency in 1968.
AP881224-0081 	X	Time magazine has named the ``endangered Earth'' its Planet of the Year, departing from its annual Man of the Year designation to call for ``a universal crusade to save the planet.'' ``This year the Earth spoke, like God warning Noah of the deluge,'' the weekly newsmagazine said, citing natural and human-caused disasters from earthquakes to overpopulation to pollution of the world's beaches. Since 1927, Time annually has selected the person, group or object that in its editors' views most significantly influenced world events that year. It selected an inanimate object once before _ the computer, in 1982. In the cover article of its Jan. 2 issue, released Saturday, Time warned of a series of impending environmental catastrophes: _Pollution-caused warming of the atmosphere, known as the ``greenhouse effect,'' threatening weather changes that could flood coastlines and render large areas of the planet infertile and uninhabitable. _Toxic and radioactive wastes and dumped garbage that could poison drinking water and despoil the land. _Chemical pollution that is depleting the atmosphere's protective ozone layer. _Clearing of tropical rain forests, driving thousands of species to extinction. ``Most of these evils had been going on for a long time, and some of the worst disasters apparently had nothing to do with human behavior,'' Time said. ``Yet this year's bout of freakish weather and environmental horror stories seemed to act as a powerful catalyst for worldwide public opinion. ``Everyone suddenly sensed that this gyrating globe, this precious repository of all the life we know of, was in danger. No single individual, no event, no movement captured imaginations or dominated headlines more than the clump of rock and soil and water and air that is our common home.'' Added Time: ``Now, more than ever, the world needs leaders who can inspire their fellow citizens with a fiery sense of mission, not a nationalistic or military campaign but a universal crusade to save the planet.''
AP880824-0282 	X	Sony Corp. said Wednesday its profit soared five-fold in its first fiscal quarter on the strength of a ``gratifying sales performance'' and success in reducing costs. Sony said it earned 16.1 billion yen, or $122 million based on an exchange rate of 132 yen to the dollar, in the period ended June 30, up from 3.25 billion yen a year earlier. Revenue rose 37.2 percent to 463.6 billion yen, or $3.51 billion, from 337.8 billion yen a year earlier. The sales gain reflects strong demand in all areas, especially in Europe and Japan, as well as the addition of sales generated by the former CBS Records Group, which Sony bought in January. The exchange rate used to calculate dollar equivalents was the one prevailing at the end of the reporting period.
AP881202-0106 	X	Soviet troops broke up a mob of up to 1,500 people that had gathered in the Azerbaijan capital of Baku to attack Armenians, official media reported Friday. The Soviet government formed a commission to feed and clothe thousands of refugees from the republics of Armenia and Azerbaijan who had crowded into tents, dormitories and relatives' apartments because of ethnic violence that has killed at least 60 people since February. Baku radio, in a report monitored by the British Broadcasting Corp. in London, said soldiers had prevented a mob from attacking Armenian residents of Baku on Thursday night. ``In the area of the railway station, a mob of up to 1,500 people attempted to beat up citizens of Armenian nationality. Because of the measures adopted, the troops stopped the attempts at hooligan activities,'' the radio said. Soldiers fired warning shots in five instances overnight, and they confiscated nine guns and two knives, it said. A curfew remained in effect in Baku, Yerevan and other major cities in the two republics. At least 80,000 people have crossed the border to their ethnic homelands, Soviet media reported Thursday. The Defense Ministry newspaper Krasnaya Zvezda reported Friday that another 19,000 people had fled across the border the previous day. In a report from northern Armenia, the newspaper Socialist Industry said a resort designed for 300 children and 150 adults was jammed with 700 people who had fled Azerbaijan. ``In tents intended for two people, there are six beds,'' the newspaper said. ``In corridors, halls and entrances, endlessly tired people sit silently, immersed in themselves.'' ``Dozens of people who we listened to here said the same thing: there, where they lived, local authorities warned that they could not answer for their safety, and proposed that they urgently leave the republic.'' ``There was no talk about compensation for their homes, cattle, furniture or belongings,'' the paper said. The Tass news agency said that Boris Shcherbina, deputy premier, would head a Soviet government commission to extend aid to the refugees. Scherbina also headed a special commission 2{ years ago to deal with the Chernobyl nuclear power accident. Refugees ``will be provided with food, housing, medical and other social and consumer services, and given jobs,'' Tass said. Armenia and Azerbaijan previously had set up such commissions on a local level. Official Armenian media have said that the government is confiscating empty homes to house the refugees and is providing food for them. The two southern Soviet republics are locked in a bitter dispute over control of the predominantly Armenian region of Nagorno-Karabakh in Azerbaijan. Residents began agitating in February for annexation by Armenia, but the idea has been rejected both by Azerbaijan and the central government in Moscow. Ethnic rioting broke out in the Azerbaijani city of Sumgait at the end of February, and 32 people died. The republics remained tense since then, and in mid-November Azerbaijanis began mass demonstrations to protest what they said was an Armenian effort to send settlers to Nagorno-Karabakh to pad the Armenian majority. A national Interior Ministry spokesman told the Communist Party newspaper Pravda in an article published Thursday that the death toll in the latest violence was 28. The Supreme Soviet parliament and the Soviet leadership under President Mikhail S. Gorbachev appealed for calm Thursday, urging Armenians and Azerbaijanis to show restraint.
AP880610-0185 	X	Her students dressed her in a gold cape and handmade crown, the school board named a kindergarten classroom in her honor and the mayor declared it ``Nellie M. Karrey Day.'' It was all part of a celebration by this western Massachusetts city for the teacher who, for more than a half-century, has gently introduced its children to school. ``It was such a surprise. It was a big secret and the children didn't tell,'' Miss Karrey, 78, said Friday. ``They were awfully cute.''' She will retire this month after 54 years of teaching, including 51 in North Adams kindergarten classrooms. She and her three sisters, also teachers, never wanted to do anything else, Miss Karrey said. ``I don't like cooking and I don't like gardening, but kindergarten was my niche.'' The celebrations began Thursday with a gala assembly at Greylock Elementary School where, with a paper crown perched on her gray curls, she accepted each class' handmade tributes, poems and cheers as well as proclamations from local and national politicians. A fifth-grade class changed the lyrics of ``She's Coming Around the Mountain'' and sang ``She gave us birthday cards and pulled our teeth ... she taught all my aunts and uncles and grandpa, too.'' ``One of the classes gave her a quilt, and put in it some of the things that she was noted for, such as the clay handprints,'' said Principal Stephen A. Boisvert. ``Every Christmas for as long as I can remember she has had each of the children in her class make an imprint of their hand in clay. And then she paints the imprints so they can give them to their parents. They have become family treasures,'' he said. Thursday evening, more than 300 of her former students turned out for an open house at the school. In keeping with one of her traditions, each of Miss Karrey's former students received a lollipop. ``She had a large tent in her classroom with a candle on top and a box of lollipops inside and whenever one of the children had a birthday they would light the candle and the child whose birthday it was would get to pass out a lollipop to everyone in the class,'' Boisvert said. ``She's an outstanding teacher, because of her flexibility and her warm relationship with the children,'' Boisvert said. Each fall for the 23 years he has been at the school, he said, she has gleefully reported that this was her best class ever. Five-year-olds, Miss Karrey said, haven't changed much over the past 50 years. ``They're all sweet as youngsters,'' she said. ``The smart ones are very smart now, because of all the opportunities they have to go places and be exposed to things through television and VCRs,'' she said. ``And the others I'm not going to tell you about.'' As for teacher burnout, Miss Karrey scoffed. ``I don't know what they are talking about,'' she said. ``I love the children and I'll miss them terribly.''
AP881110-0282 	X	Bankers who lend money for housing urged President-elect George Bush on Thursday to take early steps against rising home mortgage rates and said they favor a broad-based tax increase if necessary to ease the deficit and save the housing market. ``We hope ... that the Bush administration, as a last resort, will not foreclose the option of raising new revenues if necessary to bring down the deficit,'' said Warren Lasko, executive vice president of the Mortgage Bankers Association. ``He has to find a way to step away from his read-my-lips philosophy,'' said Lasko, referring to Bush's campaign pledge not to raise taxes. But Lasko told a news conference that housing lenders would oppose any effort by the administration or Congress to eliminate or reduce the income tax deduction home buyers can take on their mortgage interest. He said such a move would be a tax increase. Lasko said the association, which represents 2,800 mortgage companies and other lenders, hopes Bush will give increased attention to housing in line with his promise for a ``kinder, gentler nation.'' He said the new president and Congress will have ``an opportunity to weave a stronger thread of home ownership and housing opportunity into the social fabric of the nation.'' The association says home ownership is declining in relation to the population, with eight percent fewer families headed by men and women between the ages of 30 and 34 owning homes now than did when Reagan was first elected in 1980. It also says home buying takes a bigger bite out of family income, rents are higher, low-income housing is scarcer, vacancies are higher among high-income units, and 9.5 million American families live in substandard housing. Lasko criticized the Department of Housing and Urban Development under Reagan for failing to work with Congress or with state and local officials to combat the housing problem. ``HUD has been negligent in recent years in not attending to the fact that housing and community building are to be carried out with governors and mayors,'' he said. Lasko noted that interest rates on home mortgages have been creeping up in the past week and said they could reach 11 percent by the end of the year, further slowing housing markets. Increases in the amount of public and private debt tend to push interest rates up, and Lasko said the United States has become a nation ``addicted to debt.'' He said Bush's first priority for benefitting housing should be to decrease the deficit. ``Nothing affects housing affordability more than interest rates,'' he said.
AP880729-0028 	X	A consumer group says it will sue the Consumer Product Safety Commission if it doesn't do something about what the group sees as the threat of cancer lurking in children's sand piles. A commission officials said Thursday there is no evidence that commercial play sand causes cancer, but the commission will make a formal decision on a petition to ban limestone products, including play sand, in September. Industry officials say if sand from the nation's rock quarries caused cancer, there would be higher instances of the disease among workers in the centuries-old industry. Public Citizen, a non-profit organization which fights for product safety and public health, said in a news release Thursday that many of the nation's children could be exposed to play sand that contains dangerous asbestos or asbestos-like tremolite fibers. ``During the hot summer of 1988 your children may be playing in the sandbox. Would you want them to be breathing asbestos as they pour buckets of sand over each other?'' the consumer group asked. Asbestos fibers have been proven to cause cancer when inhaled. Children who are exposed to them may not be afflicted until many years after exposure, the group said. In a letter to the product safety commission, Public Citizen said that if the agency does not indicate within 30 days that it plans to resolve the issue, the group will consider legal action. Appeals to the safety commission to protect workers and consumers from exposure to rock-based fibers date back 12 years. In May, the agency said it had evaluated several play sand samples and did not find asbestos in any of them. Public Citizen, however, said sand sold under two brand names, Basins Play Sand and Quickrete Kiddie's Fun Sand, have been shown by tests to contain tremolite, a rock-forming mineral that can occur in an asbestos form. ``No one knows how many other brands may be similarly contaminated,'' the group said. An official of Package Pavement of Stormville, N.Y., a distributor of Kiddie's Fun Sand, said five outside tests have been conducted on its sand and none found harmful ingredients. ``All indications are that there is no such fiber in our play sand,'' said Eileen Doherty, vice president for marketing. She said sand from a quarry in Connecticut does contain tremolite, but in a crystalline form which is not harmful. Sandra Eberle, safety commission program manager for chemical hazards, said no one has found true asbestos in play sand. She said the fiber-like particles that have raised concern are not tremolite asbestos but ultra-thin cleavages from crystalline tremolite that occur in some marble-based sand. ``It's very upsetting to us because parents get naturally terrified. I've spent a lot of time on the phone telling people this is not asbestos,'' she said. Ms. Eberle said, however, that the commission is still considering a petition by New Jersey geologist and physician Mark Germine to ban all limestone products, including play sand, lawn and garden limestone and consumer gravel products. Rick Renninger of the National Stone Association, which represents the industry, said the claim of cancer-causing ingredients in sand is old and is not backed up by the evidence. ``We produce a billion tons of stone a year in the United States, and we've been doing it for a couple of hundred years,'' he said. ``I think that there'd be evidence of asbestos disease problems in people exposed for their entire working lives, and there simply isn't.'' Renninger said tremolite is among the most common rock-forming minerals and is found in almost every rock product. Public Citizen researcher Dr. Lynn Silver, a pediatrician, accused sand distributors of trying to hide the danger of their products. ``The industry throws up a smokescreen,'' she said in an interview. ``If somebody dies from falling off the left side of a skyscraper, they tell you there's nothing to prove that falling off the right side is also dangerous.''
AP880401-0126 	X	American corporations that owe taxes to Panama will be allowed the U.S. foreign tax credit if payments are made to the government of ousted President Eric Arturo Delvalle, the Internal Revenue Service said Friday. The announcement was aimed at discouraging U.S. businesses from sending tax payments to the Panamanian government controlled by military strongman Manuel Antonio Noriega, which Washington does not recognize. Some large U.S.-based multinational firms recently made quarterly tax payments just in time to give that government a desperately needed infusion of cash. The foreign tax credit is designed to prevent two national governments from taxing the same dollar of income. In general, the United States will not tax income that an American corporation earns in and pays taxes on to a foreign country. The IRS announcement is the latest move in the U.S. effort to squeeze Noriega, who has been indicted in the United States on drug-trafficking charges. Delvalle, who is in hiding, has directed that all tax payments due his country be paid through the Panamanian Embassy in Washington into a special account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. ``This notice confirms that income taxes due to the government of Panama which are paid into such account will be considered paid to the government of Panama, and will therefore be creditable foreign taxes if all other requirements'' of the law are met, an IRS statement said. The White House, in declaring Thursday that such an announcement would be forthcoming, cautioned that U.S. businesses might expect some sanctions if they continue turning over money to Noriega. A spokesman for Eastern Airlines said the company had recently paid the Noriega government $178,000 in monthly rentals and landing fees. Texaco, Inc., routinely paid income, sales and excise taxes for March, said spokesman Peter Maneri, and sees no conflict with the position of the U.S. government. ``We do not become involved in any political activity in a host nation; we're just doing business down there,'' Maneri said.
AP900118-0234 	X	U.S. airlines had their most fatal air crashes last year since 1968 but the government says the overall accident rate for commercial air carriers and commuters declined. In all, 278 people were killed in 11 crashes in 1989 involving scheduled and non-scheduled air carriers, down slightly from the 285 in 1988, the National Transportation Safety Board said Wednesday. The most deadly year of the decade was 1985 when 526 people were killed in seven fatal commercial aviation accidents. The least destructive year was 1980 when only one fatal accident took place, killing just one person. Also last year, 763 people died in accidents involving private or general aircraft, the safety board said, the lowest figure for that category since it began keeping statistics. There were 781 deaths involving general aviation accidents in 1988. The board said the fatal accident rate for general or private aviation continued ``an improving trend that lasted most of the decade.'' Despite the high number of airline accidents involving fatalities last year, the overall accident rate for commercial air carriers and commuters declined, the safety board said. There were 28 accidents involving U.S. scheduled and charter airlines last year, a decrease from the 32 accidents recorded in 1988. The 11 involving fatalities were the most since the 15 of 1968. The fatal accident rate was 0.144 for every 100,000 scheduled and charter departures, up from 0.026 in 1988. The major scheduled U.S. airlines had 24 accidents last year, down from 31 the previous year. Of those two dozen accidents, eight involved fatalities, the most since 1973. Accidents involving scheduled airlines took 131 lives last year, 111 of them when a United Airlines DC-10 crashed in Sioux City, Iowa on July 19. The safety board noted a passenger who died 31 days after the accident was not registered in its statistics. The scheduled-airline accident rate for each 100,000 departures was 0.328, down from 0.412 in 1988. The fatal accident rate rose from 0.027 to 0.109. Charter airlines experienced four accidents during the year, three of them involving fatalities. A total of 147 people died, all but three of them in the Feb. 8 crash of an Independent Air B-707. There were no fatal accidents involving chartered aircraft in 1988. Here are other aviation accident statistics for 1989: _Commuter flights: There were 18 accidents, one fewer then in 1988. Five fatal accidents, up from 2 in 1988, took 31 lives. That was 10 more than in 1988. The accident rate: 0.621 for each 100,000 departures compared to a rate of 0.654 in 1988. The fatal accident rate rose from 0.069 to 0.172. _Air taxis: Accidents rose from 98 in 1988 to 110. The number of fatal accidents declined from 27 to 23. But fatalities increased from 58 to 80. The accident rate rose from 3.45 to 3.83 for every 100,000 aircraft hours. But the fatal accident rate dropped from 0.95 to 0.80. _General aviation: The accident rate dropped for the seventh year in a row from 7.97 for each 100,000 aircraft hours in 1988 to 7.25. The last increase in the accident rate took place in 1982 when it was 10,06. The fatal accident rate declined to 1.40 for each 100,000 hours from 1.52 in 1988.
AP900613-0124 	X	Georgette Mosbacher, socialite wife of the U.S. secretary of commerce and head of a cosmetics company she owns, was robbed of $30,000 in jewelry and cash outside her hotel room by a man with a submachine gun. Mrs. Mosbacher said she gave the robber her jewelry and handbag, then escaped when an elevator opened and she jumped in. ``I was screaming and yelling and leaning on the buzzer,'' Mrs. Mosbacher said after the Tuesday robbery. ``When I got to the lobby, I ran to the desk. I was hoping they could lock off the stairs and catch him.'' The robber fled. No arrests have been made, police said Wednesday. Mrs. Mosbacher said the well-dressed robber covered her with the small submachine gun and told her to open her door. She said she told him the key wouldn't work, but he got it open. ``I told him `I'm not going there. I'm not going to shout.' ``I took off my earrings and said, `There's a bench over there and I'm going to sit.' I said to myself, `I'm not going to live,' but I thought I'd have a better chance in the hallway,'' she recalled. The gunman's hands were occupied with jewelry and Mrs. Mosbacher's bag when the elevator door opened and Mrs. Mosbacher took her chance to get away. The robber got her wedding band, two other rings, a watch, $400 in cash and the earrings, she said. She said the valuables were worth $30,000. Mrs. Mosbacher was staying at the hotel while the couple's apartment is being renovated.
AP880218-0096 	X	The investigation into the case of a black teen-ager who claims she was sexually assaulted by six white men has again reached an impasse with lawyers for the victim saying they will not cooperate with prosecutors. Representatives of the victim met with state Attorney General Robert Abrams, the special prosecutor investigating the case, for 12 hours Tuesday and Wednesday but failed to secure a pledge from Abrams that he would personally handle several key aspects of the case. Without that, ``we are unable to give him the cooperation that he is demanding of us,'' Alton Maddox Jr., an attorney representing Tawana Brawley and her family, said at a news conference after Wednesday's meeting. ``There is no way that we can agree that we have, instead of a special prosecutor, a case manager,'' he said. ``We are looking for a special prosecutor to personalize this case.'' Abrams said in a statement that he was committed to personal participation in, as well as overall responsibility, for the case. But he said it was too early to make the specific tactical decisions demanded by Maddox, attorney C. Vernon Mason, and activist Al Sharpton. Abrams said the investigation will continue without the cooperation of Miss Brawley or her attorneys. The two sides have no immediate plans to meet again, said Abrams' spokesman, Timothy Gilles. Miss Brawley, 16, of Wappinger Falls, claims she was repeatedly raped and assaulted last November by six white men, one of whom flashed a police badge. She was found four days after her disappearance in a daze, wrapped in a plastic bag. Racial epithets had been scrawled on her body. This week's talks followed a meeting Feb. 11 between Miss Brawley's representatives and Gov. Mario Cuomo, which appeared to break a stalemate that had stymied the investigation. Previously the representatives had refused to allow Miss Brawley or her family to cooperate in the probe, saying they didn't think John Ryan, the aide Abrams had picked to head the investigation, had sufficient experience in civil rights matters. The attorneys later said they had been assured by Cuomo that Abrams would be ``personally involved'' in the investigation. In the meetings this week the representatives made Miss Brawley's cooperation conditional on Abrams personally conducting certain aspects of the case, including grand jury presentation and direct examination of several witnesses, Abrams said. ``I have indicated that I do not rule out performing any or even all of these roles myself,'' said Abrams. ``However, we are far from any trial here, we are far from even solving this case, and these are questions of trial tactics that I and my staff of prosecutors feel cannot in good conscience be made at this time.''
AP880301-0139 	X	A county supervisor who prides himself on doing right by his district and recently offered $1 to any constituent who spotted a pothole, has issued a $5 bounty on flooded intersections. ``Whether I pay off one or two, it'll be the best survey the Flood Control District ever had,'' said Kenneth Hahn, who is running for an unprecedented 10th term. ``It'll keep the Flood Control engineers out of their offices in downtown and down in the streets where they belong,'' he said. The offer, intended to pull the plug on storm-caused flooding, is good from Tuesday through March 10. Hahn paid $3 on his pothole offer _ $2 of it to a Los Angeles Herald Examiner reporter who cruised the byways of the 2nd District in a near-fruitless search for poor pavement. ``I pride myself on taking care of my district,'' Hahn said. ``If you do your homework and take care of the little things in your district, the big things will take care of themselves.''
AP900129-0058 	X	President Bush asked Congress today to cut taxes on capital gains and create a new tax break to encourage savings. Bush's 1991 budget calls for tax increases of $15.7 billion, although there is no proposed general increase in personal income taxes. The budget recommends $5.6 billion increases in user and service fees and $1.8 billion worth of targeted tax cuts, including a special credit of up to $1,000 a year for each child under the age of 4 in lower-income families. Although the most sensitive revenue proposal in the budget is the tax cut on capital gains, the one with the potential for affecting the greatest number of taxpayers is the call for a reward for increased savings. Under this proposal, a couple could avoid tax on the interest earned on special ``family savings accounts'' held for seven years or longer. While interest would be tax-exmept, deposits to such accounts would have no tax advantage. Most couples would be allowed to invest up to $5,000 a year in these accounts; a single person could invest $2,500. The tax break would be limited to couples with incomes below $120,000 and single people under $60,000. Bush also recommended that a first-time homebuyer be allowed to withdraw up to $10,000 penalty-free from an Individual Retirement Account in order to make a down payment on the home. The proposed capital-gains tax cut is more sweeping than the one Bush failed to win from Congress last year. Democratic leaders have fought any such reduction on grounds that 80 percent of the benefit would go to those with incomes over $100,000 a year. ``A reduction in the capital-gains rate would help United States businesses in the face of increasing global competition,'' Bush said in a written message to Congress. He also repeated the administration's insistence that cutting taxes on capital gains _ which are profits from the sale of stock, real estate and other investments _ would increase revenues. Under Bush's plan, capital gains from property owned more than one year would be taxed at lower rates than apply to wages and other income. When fully phased in, the provision would exempt from taxation 30 percent of profits from the sale of property owned at least three years; 20 percent of gains from property owned more than two but less than three years would be exempt; 10 percent of gain from assets held more than one year would be exempt. Thus, a person whose regular income is taxed at 28 percent would pay an effective rate of 19.6 percent on capital gains from long-held property. Other revenue proposals include: _Making permanent the 3-percent tax on local and long-distance telephone service, which is due to expire Dec. 31. _Raising the 8-percent tax on airline tickets to 10 percent. _Increasing more than three times the fee on waterway shippers, from 0.04 percent of value to 0.125 percent. _Requiring the 3.8 million state and local government workers who are not covered by a retirement plan to pay Social Security taxes. Also, state and local workers hired before April 1, 1986, would be required to pay the 1.45 percent Medicare tax; most state and local workers already pay. _Cutting oil industry taxes by creating four incentives for drilling in old fields. _Imposing fees for a variety of government services, including those provided by the Coast Guard and the Food and Drug Administration. _Requiring veterans, except those with low incomes, to pay part of their medical bills relating to non-service-connected ailments. Many veterans wold have to pay a 1.75 percent fee on new VA housing loan guarantees.
AP900524-0112 	X	Kids are saying no to plastic across the Twin Cities after a cafeteria sit-in by grade schoolers prompted a school board decision to switch from disposable lunch trays and cups in favor of washable dishes. Mounds View school officials say they will spend at least $145,000 to equip eight grade schools with dishwashers and related equipment _ three schools next year and five the year after that. Students at Bel Air started the movement after hearing their teacher talk about the need to recycle and attending Earth Day festivities. They passed around a petition, which prompted school officials to call in a plastics representative to preach the benefits of plastic. That made them decide to stage a cafeteria sit-in. When they refused to return to class, they were suspended for a day and a half. While banished from class they cleaned up a neighborhood park.
AP880820-0001 	X	A shark named ``megamouth'' with lips that glow in the dark washed ashore off the coast of Western Australia, and scientists said it was only the third time such a specimen has been found. ``In this day and age, it is quite a remarkable find,'' Dr. Gerald Allen of the Fish Department of the Western Australia Museum said Friday. ``Something like this doesn't happen every day.'' The fish, which measured 16 feet and looks like a cross between a whale and a shark, swam ashore on Wednesday near the resort town of Mandurah. Locals pushed it back to sea, but it beached itself again and died. Allen said only two other specimens had been found. He said a megamouth _ as researchers call the shark _ was first discovered in 1976 off Hawaii. A second specimen was caught in 1984 off the coast of Southern California. ``It's the first time a megamouth has been found in the Southern Hemisphere,'' Allen said in a telephone interview with The Associated Press. Allen said the fish lives at depths of 660 feet to 3,300 feet and has bioluminescent lips that glow in the dark to attract jellyfish, plankton, shrimp and other food. ``We don't know very much about it other than that it swims at great depths apparently with its mouth open, filtering food,'' said Allen. He said the megamouth has a bulbous head with a mouth measuring 2{ feet across and tiny teeth. ``It's definitely a shark and it is not prehistoric,'' Allen said. Allen also noted that the megamouth, weighing about 1,500 pounds, feels very flabby. ``It's sort of like jelly,'' he said. ``That is because it doesn't need strong muscles or a hard skeleton for the sort of environment in which it lives.'' He said the museum planned to display the megamouth.
AP880610-0202 	X	High school officials who protested greeting cards linking drinking and graduation are irate and embarrassed over a similar display in their school's yearbook. The full-page photo spread in Edison High School's yearbook, the Oracle, shows students with beer bottles and wine coolers. It appeared less than a week after Edison administrators joined in a protest of the Hallmark cards, which the company later said it would discontinue. ``I'm very concerned and disappointed,'' Principal Jack Kennedy said Thursday. ``If there was a way I could recall it, I would. But I can't. ``It depicts everything we're against,'' he said. Edison officials became involved in the protest after a parent discovered two cards linking drinking to graduation fun. The parent, who is on a committee planning a graduation party next week at Edison, took the cards to Mothers Against Drunk Drivers. Kennedy is retiring July 1 and will be replaced by Brian Garland, who also joined members of MADD in the June 3 protest outside Hallmark's regional sales office in Newport Beach. Garland said Thursday that the photo page in the yearbook showed ``poor judgment'' and gives the school a bad image. ``It won't happen again,'' Garland said, ``I won't tolerate it. You can bet the farm.'' Students paid for the page, near the back of the annual, school officials said. Jim Wheeler, a 19-year yearbook adviser, said he was unsure ``where to draw the line'' but added the yearbook staff had voted to refrain from such features next year.
AP880926-0243 	X	OPEC's price monitoring committee ended a two-day emergency session Monday by calling for prompt action to reverse the sharp decline in world oil prices but stopped short of calling for a special meeting of the full 13-member cartel. In a communique released at the conclusion of the meeting, the oil ministers also said it was essential that a joint meeting of the price committee and the Long-Term Strategy Committee be held to review existing OPEC strategies and objectives. ``No lasting stability in the world oil market can be achieved without concrete cooperation by the non-OPEC oil producing countries and their contribution in regulating world supplies of oil in line with demand,'' the price committee said. OPEC Secretary General Subroto of Indonesia, speaking to reporters at a news conference following the meeting, underscored the committee's statement saying the cause of the recent fall in oil prices was ``mainly due to a significant overproduction of some OPEC countries as well as non-OPEC oil producers.'' Subroto said the ministers would decide after the joint meeting whether a special session of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries should be called before its regularly scheduled meeting Nov. 21 in Vienna. Oil futures prices on the New York Mercantile Exchange, which had risen earlier in the day, began falling immediately after Subroto's statements then recovered slightly, analysts said. One broker said Subroto's comments were interpreted as indicating OPEC was unwilling to take immediate action to restrain oil output and boost sagging oil prices. The meeting of the price committee was called in response to the recent slump in world oil prices, which earlier this month hit their lowest level since the summer of 1986 when they fell below $10 a barrel. According to many analysts, sagging prices represent the failure of nearly all OPEC members to respect production quotas. The secretary general did not give specific dates for the joint meeting except to say it would probably be held in October. Subroto said Iran and Iraq are to speak directly with each other at the Long-Term Strategy Committee for the first time in years within OPEC. He downplayed the significance of such a meeting, however, saying it was normal that their respective oil ministers should speak since their foreign ministers began meeting last month in peace talks. The Long-Term Strategy Committee is comprised of OPEC's founding members, including: Iran, Iraq, Saudia Arabia, Algeria, Venezuela and Kuwait. Subroto said Iran and Iraq have both confirmed their attendance at the joint session. Saudi Arabia, Venezuela and Algeria also are members of the price committee, along with Nigeria and Indonesia. Since the last price committee meeting Aug. 3 in Lausanne, Switzerland, a cease-fire between the two countries in their eight-year Gulf War has begun to hold. The Price Evolution Committee, as the price committee is officially named, is an influential panel that studies price developments and compliance with OPEC policies, namely production quotas, by OPEC members, although it has no enforcement powers. The committee may, however, call for special meetings of all 13 OPEC members. The committee said it also examined during the emergency session in the Spanish capital a report prepared by the Vienna-based OPEC Secretariat on current market conditions as well as a report presented by Subroto on the outcome of his recent visits to various OPEC and non-OPEC oil producing countries. The Paris-based International Energy Energy Agency reported OPEC production at 19 million barrels a day in August and OPEC President Rilwanu Lukman has put OPEC production at closer to 20 million barrels per day. Last June, OPEC set a 15.06 million barrel a day ceiling to apply to all OPEC nations except Iraq, which has refused to go along with OPEC quotas, saying it needs to produce more oil to rebuild its war-torn economy following eight years of fighting with Iran. On Monday, North Sea Brent crude for delivery in October was quoted at $13.25, up slightly from Friday.
AP900606-0018 	X	Under pressure from builders and Congress, federal regulators are moving to ease lending restrictions imposed on savings and loans under last year's bailout law. The Office of Thrift Supervision is proposing to temporarily quadruple to 60 percent the percentage of capital that a qualified thrift institution may lend to one borrower, an agency official said Tuesday. The office was under intense pressure from lawmakers who were inundated with complaints from builders that the rule was forcing them to curtail projects, putting their employees out of work. Last year's S&L legislation had sharply reduced the lending limit, aiming to sever the cozy relationship between highflying S&Ls and some developers. In the past, loan limits were so high that the default of a single loan could bankrupt a thrift. However, builders complained that the shift was too abrupt and left many reputable builders unable to arrange alternative financing for sound projects. Last month, the National Association of Homebuilders cited the regulation as one element in a credit crunch they predicted would cut housing construction nationally by 100,000 units to 1.28 million this year. Under a draft regulation submitted by the thrift agency to the Treasury Department and the Office of Management and Budget, the strongest S&Ls would be allowed to lend up to 60 percent of their capital to a single U.S. developer for residential construction. That is four times the 15 percent limit imposed by S&L bailout legislation enacted last August. The limit would drop to 30 percent before returning to the 15 percent mark at the end of 1991, said the thrift office official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. Before passage of the S&L bailout law, thrifts had been allowed to lend 100 percent of their capital to one borrower. The new transition rule would not apply to commercial projects, and only S&Ls currently meeting strict capital standards effective in 1995 would be eligible. The thrift office official said 1,185 of the nation's 2,502 solvent S&Ls meet the test. ``This will give us some breathing room,'' said economist David Seiders of the homebuilders group. ``We think it will provide a lot of help.'' The association had been pushing for a somewhat longer transition period and had wanted regulators to make a larger group of thrifts eligible for the relaxation. But, Seiders said, ``This is a step in the right direction.'' The homebuilders had mounted a campaign in Congress, where legislators in both chambers were preparing amendments to the S&L law. A transition rule proposed by Rep. Peter Hoagland, D-Neb., had attracted more than 60 cosponsors. However, Seiders said the builders all along had been looking for relief from regulators rather than having to wait months for Congress to change the law. Details of the loan-to-one-borrower proposal were first reported in Tuesday editions of American Banker, a trade newspaper. The thrift office hopes to formally announce the policy by the end of the month, the agency official said. Regulators, in testimony to a House Banking subcommittee in February, indicated that last year's law left them with no discretion to issue a transition rule. However, Treasury Undersecretary Robert Glauber told the Senate Banking Committee in May that thrift office lawyers were working to establish their authority to interpret the law. Seiders praised Timothy Ryan, the new director of the thrift office, for his willingness to review the matter after taking office two months ago. ``We think it's a good sign in terms of (prospects for) working with Ryan'' and the agency, the homebuilders official said.
AP880528-0135 	X	Police said they raided a Mafia summit Saturday and arrested five people meeting to draw up new territories for Naples' crime families. The five were charged with criminal association of a Mafia type and with illegal possession of firearms. They are reputed leaders of the Camorra, the Neapolitan version of the Mafia. Authorities said the five met at the apartment of the boss of one Camorra gang and that the apartment had been under surveillance for months. The five were identified as Antonio Egizio, 35; his brother Umberto Egizio, 24; Vincenzo Romano, 28; Vincenzo de Michele, 36; and Salvatore Manna, 44. Police said Antonio Egizio recently sent a letter to President Francesco Cossiga complaining that he was a good person who was continously being persecuted, stopped and followed by the police.
AP880630-0149 	X	Scientists today began innoculating an acre of corn stalks in the first field test of a genetically engineered microbe designed to combat the European corn borer, one of agriculture's most destructive pests. Although researchers have conducted other experiments of genetically altered materials in the environment, the tests of Cxc-Bt at the federal experimental station here are the first approved of a genetically altered ``plant vaccine,'' scientists and federal officials said. Proponents of the Crop Genetics International project call the testing a step toward an era of chemical-free pest control. The company's chief scientist, Peter Carlson, said today he hoped Cxc-Bt will have the effect of making the corn borer sick. But he said the main purpose of the test is to determine whether the pesticide will spread from plant to plant, an undesireable effect. The microbe works by attacking the alkaline stomach of corn borers, giving them ulcers. It doesn't affect humans because people's stomachs are acid and are unaffected by the Bt protein, according to researchers. In previous experiments in petrie dishes and in a greenhouse, the microbe killed the borers in the petrie dishes and sickened them when tested in the greenhouse. The pest costs American farmers $400 million annually. Critics worry that Cxc-Bt experiment could set a precedent and are concerned that genetically engineered materials could spread uncontrollably once released into the environment. Environmental groups, including the National Audubon Society and the Environmental Defense Fund, did not oppose the limited field tests begun today. Environmental experts said if their questions about spreading are answered with more tests, they may support the final product. The crucial question for environmental groups is whether there will be adequate testing and regulation because Cxc-Bt is just the beginning of a rush of dozens, perhaps hundreds, of similiar products, said Maureen Hinkle, the Audubon Society's director of agriculture policy. Only one other genetic crop protector, a microbe altered to fight frost, has been approved for field testing by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Jeremy Rifkin, president of the Washington-based Foundation on Economic Trends, said the pesticide hasn't been shown to work in greenhouse tests. Rifkin said today his organization did not oppose today's test because ``this product doesn't work. It does not kill corn borers. (The company's) evaluation data supplied to the EPA shows the product does not kill the insects. It poses no immediate threat because it doesn't work.''
AP880323-0101 	X	A West Virginia University professor who worked as a consultant for Caterpillar Co. had his students spy on competitors of two Caterpillar dealerships, but a school official says there's no evidence the assignment was made to help the professor's work. ``I think inappropriate things were asked of them. I think they were in an uncomfortable situation and responded in an unfortunate (manner),'' Provost Frank Franz said Tuesday. Two groups of graduate students in Marketing 321 polled competitors of H.O. Penn Machinery Co. in Armonk, N.Y., and Yancey Bros. in Atlanta, both Caterpillar dealers, according to Tuesday's Wall Street Journal. The students obtained inventory and sales volume reports and even new product information from competitors and gave the data to the Caterpillar dealerships, according to the report. The aim of the assignment, according to instructor Terry Wilson, was to give students a firsthand taste of the ethical issues involved in industrial espionage. ``They'll be facing these issues every day of their career. They have to learn to deal with them. I tell them to think through the tradeoffs,'' Wilson told the Journal. However, he said his students no longer will be assigned similar projects. Franz said there was no evidence the students' surveys were conducted to help Wilson's consulting work. ``It's not clear from the article that there's any action that professor Wilson took that was inappropriate,'' he said. Wilson won't be disciplined, said Cyril Logar, dean of the College of Business and Economics, because he taught students about the ethical considerations involved in the project, including confidentiality, before the students began their work, although ``they still broke the rules, so to speak.'' ``I thought I was doing them a favor,'' said H.O. Penn Machinery marketing manager Milton Long, who helped direct students about what to ask whom. The students identified themselves only as university students during the surveys, and promised some dealerships that their identities would remain confidential, the Journal said. However, ``there was pressure'' at H.O. Penn for students to name the competing dealerships and that information was provided, one of the students, Mark Wheatley, told the Wall Street Journal. ``It makes me shudder to think about it,'' he said. Long denied obtaining confidential information from the students. Wilson said he told his students to reveal who the information was being gathered for _ but only if those being surveyed asked. And he said students should have known on their own not to divulge confidential information. One of the businessmen surveyed said business owners let their guard down when dealing with college students, allowing them to get information not ordinarily available. ``That's not ethical in my mind,'' said Alan Stith at the Atlanta-based Stith Equipment Co.
AP900201-0132 	X	The Soviet military commandant expressed hope Thursday that by mid-February troops could begin returning home and authorities could lift a curfew imposed after violent ethnic clashes in Azerbaijan. Representatives of Armenia and Azerbaijan prepared to open peace talks Friday across the Soviet Union in Riga, capital of the Baltic republic of Latvia. A spokesman for the Azerbaijani People's Front accused President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of caving in to Communist hard-liners by sending troops to occupy Baku, and added: ``Gorbachev's hands are now bloody.'' Lt. Gen. Vladimir S. Dubinyak told the first foreign journalists permitted to visit Baku since the military seized control of the city Jan. 20 there are ``many positively inclined forces trying to noralize the situation and end the curfew.'' He said the 11 p.m.-5 a.m. curfew might be lifted within two weeks. He said tensions would have to ease further, including an end to leaflets appealing to Baku workers to strike to protest the military presence. At night, during the curfew, military trucks and armored personnel carriers stand at most intersections between Baku airport and the center of the city. Soldiers guarding the intersections wear helmets and carry automatic weapons. Red flowers mark where Azerbaijanis died fighting the military intervention. On Jan. 13, Azerbaijanis attacked ethnic Armenians and drove them from their homes in Baku, an oil center and the capital of the republic of Azerbaijan in the southern Soviet Union. Soviet troops stormed Baku a week later. The official Soviet news agency Tass reported the death toll in Baku alone since the troops moved in at 139. That includes 106 civilians, 28 soldiers and five policemen. As many as 498 people were wounded, Tass said. Iran on Thursday offered to send doctors, nurses and medicine to neighboring Soviet Azerbaijan, whose residents are primarily Shiite Moslem, like most Iranians. The offer was reported by Tehran television, monitored in Cyprus. Iran has condemned the use of force in Azerbaijan. Dubinyak said regular army soldiers, making up 5,000 of the 17,000 troops now committed to Baku, could be sent home, military equipment could be removed from the streets, and the remaining Interior Ministry soldiers could patrol the streets without weapons. Dubinyak said he would welcome talks with the Azerbaijan People's Front, a group that Defense Minister Dmitri T. Yazov has said the military is trying to crush as a nationalist movement. Dubinyak said the people's front has not proposed talks, but a spokesman for the group interrupted to say such discussions could begin any time. The People's Front spokesman, Nadchov Nadzhavov, editor of the group's banned newspaper, charged that soldiers were sent into Baku in part to prevent the front from making a strong showing in local elections. The date for the elections is to be set this month, and they must take place within three months. ``I can make the prognosis that they won't leave before the elections,'' Nadzhavov told reporters. He also criticized Gorbachev's handling of the crisis in Azerbaijan, saying the Kremlin leader had given in to reformers by not cracking down on an independence movement in Lithuania and then had given in to Communist hard-liners by sending troops into Azerbaijan. ``Gorbachev's hands are now bloody,'' he said. Lt. Gen. Mikhail P. Kolesnikov, a representative of the Soviet army serving under the commandant, told reporters that the military had been affected by the ``Tblisi syndrome.'' He said criticism that followed the crushing of a nationalist demonstration in the Georgian capital on April 9, 1989, had demoralized the military and hindered decision making. ``We saw outrages,'' he said. ``We saw instances of blood-letting, but we couldn't do anything.'' Azerbaijani representatives arrived in Riga for peace talks with a three-man delegation of the Armenian All-National Movement. ``Maybe the first steps toward dialogue with the Armenians will take place. We are counting on that,'' the chief Azerbaijani delegate, Khikmet Khazhizade of his republic's People's Front group, told The Associated Press. The talks are sponsored by the Baltic Council, a grouping of the three people's front organizations in Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania. Organizers said they hoped the talks could start Friday morning. The Baltic activists cautioned against expecting quick results. ``Such talks could help, but we need two or three months, as the problems are very deep,'' said Edvin Inken, a Latvian People's Front leader who recently visited Baku.
AP880722-0035 	X	Democratic presidential nominee Michael Dukakis begins his race against Republican George Bush with a 12-point advantage, according to an ABC News poll. The network reported Thursday that Dukakis leaped to a 53-41 percent lead in a survey of 450 registered voters Wednesday, up from his 45-46 virtual dead heat with Bush in ABC's poll Sunday. The movement was 13 points _ from 1 point down to 12 up. The jump was expected; polls in other elections have found that nominees often gain support immediately after their party's convention. Such bumps frequently settle back down as voters focus on the substance of the race. The survey reflected the success of Dukakis' peacemaking with Jesse Jackson, his opponent for the nomination. Sixty-eight percent said Dukakis was treating Jackson fairly, up from 52 percent in a poll early this month. Similarly, 70 percent said Jackson was treating Dukakis fairly, and the share of respondents with an unfavorable view of Jackson fell 11 points from Sunday, to 31 percent. Those with a favorable view rose 9 points to 52. The national survey found a rise in unfavorable views of Bush, who was roundly criticized by convention speakers this week. His favorable rating fell from 49 percent to 41 percent, while those viewing him unfavorably rose from 36 percent Sunday to 44 percent Wednesday. The poll, completed the day before Dukakis appeared at the convention, found little change in his favorable-unfavorable rating, 55-21. Dukakis' 12-point lead against Bush did not mark his greatest numerical advantage in an ABC poll; the Massachusetts governor led by 53-40 in late May. The margin of error for the new poll was 5 points. Such single-day surveys, particularly when conducted during or just after a highly publicized event, tend to measure visceral reactions rther than considered opinion, so the views they gauge can change rapidly. Dukakis continued to do better with women voters than with men, and the poll Wednesday found that he had gained more ground among women _ leading Bush by 25 points in the new poll, up from an 8-point lead Sunday. Dukakis scored a tie with Bush among men, after a 12-point Bush lead Sunday. Dukakis improved with independents, scoring 48-42 against Bush after a 52-35 lead for Bush among independents Sunday. And 59 percent of Democrats who had bolted the party to vote for President Reagan favored Dukakis now. In another measure of the convention's impact, 52 percent said the Democrats could be trusted to do a better job with the nation's problems, up 9 points from Sunday. And 40 percent said they generally approved of the proceedings in Atlanta, while just 13 percent disapproved. Nearly half said they had not been paying enough attention to say.
AP900616-0050 	X	President Violeta Barrios de Chamorro has announced plans to reduce the Nicaraguan army, the largest force in Central America, by half and retire some senior officers. Mrs. Chamorro, who took over after the leftist Sandinistas were defeated in free elections, said on Friday that the cutbacks would take effect by Aug. 3. Her spokesman, Antonio Lacayo, said the cuts would come mainly from sending draftees home and reducing the ranks of the militia. He said the reductions would also affect active-duty troops and reserve forces. Mrs. Chamorro did not say whether the Sandinista army chief, Gen. Humberto Ortega, would be among those senior officers who retire under the reforms. She had said earlier that Ortega, brother of former Sandinista President Daniel Ortega, would hold the post only temporarily. Ortega told reporters later that the army itself will decide which officers stay and which leave. Mrs. Chamorro also said she was ordering the army and the Interior Ministry to disarm civilians. ``It is my purpose that by Christmas there are no weapons in the hands of anyone unless they are part of the nation's army,'' Mrs. Chamorro said. She said draftees would be home by Dec. 7. The president's announcement came in a speech to the Cabinet, representatives of the United Nations and the Organization of American States, the diplomatic corps and the army general staff. During the 10 years of Sandinista rule, Nicaragua never made public the size of the army, but estimates put its strength at near 55,000, making it the largest in Central America. Gen. Ortega said on Friday that the army numbered 96,000, but it was not clear how many of those were active-duty troops and how many were reservists. Lacayo said the army numbered 80,000, including reserves, militia and draftees, when Mrs. Chamorro took office in April. The president said the cutbacks would bring the army strength to ``less than 41,000 men and women,'' adding: ``This means half of the members that it had on April 25, the day I assumed the presidency of the republic.'' Mrs. Chamorro also announced that 14,200 of the U.S.-backed Contra rebels have demobilized so far. The Contras waged a nearly decade-long insurgency against the Sandinistas. ``With all security we can say that today the war has been left behind,'' Mrs. Chamorro said. About 1,000 Contras have yet to demobilize but are expected to do so, she said. The measures were announced before Mrs. Chamorro left for a regional weekend summit in Guatemala, also to be attended by Secretary of State James A. Baker III. It will be Mrs. Chamorro's first summit as president. Mrs. Chamorro later arrived in Guatemala. The summit, which is taking place in the town of Antigua, 30 miles west of Guatemala City, is expected to concentrate on efforts to reconstruct the economies of Nicaragua and other countries in the region. She wanted to present the army reduction plan and the Contra demobilization as evidence that her 7-week-old, U.S. backed government is fulfilling regional peace pacts entered into by her predecessor. Mrs. Chamorro had ordered Gen. Ortega to present her with a troop-reduction plan, but she did not say whether the plan she announced was his.
AP880523-0014 	X	Mikhail S. Gorbachev said a U.S.-Soviet treaty reducing long-range nuclear weapons could be signed by January but that he will not set aside disputes over the ``Star Wars'' program to reach such an accord. The Soviet leader also said his policy of ``glasnost,'' or openness, includes freedom of speech, but he condemned a leading dissident as a ``parasite'' and accused him of ``sponging on the democratic process.'' Gorbachev's comments came in a pre-summit interview with two American news organizations. The Soviet news agency Tass on Sunday ran a partial transcript of the interview with The Washington Post and Newsweek. Radio Moscow's English-language foreign service also carried a report about it as its lead item on Sunday. Soviet television's widely watched evening news program ``Vremya'' mentioned as its lead item that the interview had been published in Washington and would appear in today's Soviet newspapers. The 90-minute discussion, in which Gorbachev also proposed a joint U.S.-Soviet trip to Mars, covered a wide range of foreign and domestic issues. The interview, conducted in the Kremlin on Wednesday, produced a startling Biblical reference by the head of the officially atheistic state. When asked about how far glasnost should go and about criticism of dictator Josef V. Stalin, the 57-year-old Communist Party leader said: ``Jesus Christ alone knew answers to all questions and knew how to feed 20,000 Jews with five loaves of bread. We don't possess that skill, we have no ready prescription to solve all our problems quickly.'' The interview was conducted 11 days before President Reagan's arrival in Moscow for a five-day summit with Gorbachev. It will be their fourth meeting. Although the Tass transcript included much of the interview, it deleted a reference to Yegor Ligachev, the Kremlin's No. 2 man. It also left out a reference to Gorbachev's wife, Raisa. Ligachev, considered more conservative than the Soviet leader, reportedly wants to slow Gorbachev's policy of ``perestroika,'' or restructuring, of the Soviet economy and society. Gorbachev acknowledged a lively debate between the two but said ``to present these discussions _ which are a normal part of the democratic process _ as division within the leadership would be a great mistake itself.'' Gorbachev expressed optimism that a superpower agreement to cut strategic, or long-range, nuclear weapons will be completed by the time Reagan leaves office in January. ``We want to have that signed,'' he said. If the agreement ``comes to be drafted under the present U.S. administration, I see no reason why President Reagan and I should not sign it. I would certainly welcome that,'' Gorbachev added. However, he cautioned that he has no plans to set aside disputes to hasten an agreement. ``If we sign with one hand a treaty reducing strategic offensive forces in one area and at the same time launch an arms race in space or at sea, what would be the point? That would be senseless,'' he said. He reiterated his opposition to Reagan's ``Star Wars'' missile defense program, known as the Strategic Defense Initiative, saying the leader who promotes an escalation of the arms race in space ``is committing a crime against the people _ his own people, and others.'' U.S. and Soviet officials have said they don't believe the long-range nuclear weapons treaty will be completed by the end of Reagan's term. Another treaty to ban short- and medium-range nuclear weapons is being debated by the U.S. Senate. Gorbachev said he will ask Reagan at the summit to approve a joint Soviet-U.S. unmanned flight to Mars. ``Why shouldn't we work together? We have great experience, you have great experience _ let us cooperate to master the cosmos, to fulfill big programs,'' he said. On domestic affairs, Gorbachev was asked whether glasnost includes freedom of speech. ``While freedom of speech is indispensable for glasnost, we see glasnost as a broader phenomenon,'' he said. Glasnost is ``the right of every citizen to openly say what he or she thinks about all social and political questions,'' he added. Gorbachev was asked later whether freedom of speech applies to dissidents such as Moscow journalist Sergei Grigoryants, who was jailed for a week earlier this month. Gorbachev said Soviets think of Grigoryants ``as some kind of alien phenomenon in our society sponging on the democratic process.'' Gorbachev went on to call Grigoryants a ``parasite.'' It was a rare reference by a Soviet leader to a dissident. Grigoryants, editor of the dissident magazine Glasnost, said the computer and printer used to produce the journal were confiscated when he was arrested. In a telephone interview on Sunday, he called Gorbachev's comments about him ``very unpleasant.''
AP900322-0209 	X	Amtrak will eliminate smoking next month on some trains and in some stations under new policies that will more strongly segregate nonsmokers and those who want to light up. No-reservation trains of three or fewer cars will be designated no-smoking, Amtrak spokeswoman Sue Martin said Wednesday. ``This will affect a number of trains in the East, some in the Midwest and one in the Northwest,'' she said. ``Seventeen routes will have some trains that at least on some days have no smoking at all.'' Two lawmakers who led the successful fight to ban smoking on most domestic flights said Wednesday that the nation's passenger railroad would adopt the tougher smoking policies April 1. They jumped the gun on Amtrak's own announcement of the new policy, which had been scheduled for today. ``These new rules are another victory for health and common sense,'' said Sen. Frank Lautenberg, D-N.J., chairman of the Senate Appropriations subcommittee on transportation. ``It's further acknowledgement that nonsmokers should not be forced to breathe other people's smoke.'' Lautenberg and Rep. Richard Durbin, D-Ill., a member of the House transportation appropriations panel, had said after the airline smoking ban took effect Feb. 25 that they would turn their attention to railroads. ``It is my hope that eventually nonsmokers will be able to ride smoke-free on all forms of public transportation,'' Durbin said. Although passengers will be permitted to smoke in sleeping compartments and lounges on longer trains, smoking will be eliminated in: _First-class cars on all trains in the Northeast Corridor that don't require reservations. Reserved-seat Metroliners will carry smoking cars and will set aside smoking areas in first-class cars. _All areas except a portion of the lounge on other trains requiring reservations. _Coach cars of reserved-seat, double-deck Superliners operating west of Chicago. Currently, Amtrak allows smoking in the last four rows of Superliner coaches. The new policy will limit Superliner smoking to the lower level of the lounge car, Ms. Martin said. _Stations smaller than 1,100 square feet. _At least three-quarters of the area of larger stations. Amtrak's ultimate goal is to separate the 25 percent of its passengers who smoke from the 75 percent who do not, Ms. Martin said. Toward that end, Amtrak will begin locating its smoking cars at the front or rear of unreserved trains so nonsmokers need not walk through smoking areas to reach their seats. The Amtrak policy changes drew fire from the Tobacco Institute, the lobby for cigarette manufacturers. ``Once again we're seeing unnecessary regulation above and beyond what is necessary,'' said institute spokesman Thomas Lauria. ``Train travelers have accommodated each other, smokers and non-smokers alike, ever since we've had trains,'' Lauria said. ``Obviously this is an attempt to put smokers in the back of the bus once again. On shorter trains, it seems mean-spirited to ban smoking altogether.'' Lauria said he anticipated resistance from smokers to Amtrak's intended smoking restrictions in stations. According to Ms. Martin, the changes are part of the national passenger railroad's fine-tuning of its smoking policy as the number of smokers drops. ``We feel it is very important for our marketing effort to continue to permit smoking on longer trips,'' Ms. Martin said. ``It simply doesn't make good business sense to eliminate smoking altogether.''
AP900515-0015 	X	Lawmakers are optimistic that North Korea's decision to return the remains of five U.S. soldiers killed in the Korean war will lead to better relations between the United States and the communist nation. ``This is a humanitarian gesture at this time, and we hope we can get into other areas at a later date,'' Rep. G.V. ``Sonny'' Montgomery, D-Miss., said Monday of the first North Korean repatriation since 1954. Montgomery, chairman of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, will head a six-member congressional delegation that travels to the border village of Panmunjom on May 28 to receive the five sets of remains. The delegation will then give the remains to the U.S. military, which will take them to a laboratory in Honolulu for identification. Montgomery said North Korean authorities told them that two sets of remains include military dog tags that should enable authorities to identify them quickly. The Defense Department estimates that about 8,200 U.S. servicemen were unaccounted for at the end of the war, with 345 of those listed as possible prisoners of war. ``I am very hopeful that this will be the first brick, if you will, in improving the relationship which will mean literally hundreds of remains,'' said Rep. Frank McCloskey, D-Ind., a delegation member, said at a news conference with Montgomery. U.S. officials have been working on obtaining U.S. remains from the 1950-53 Korean war since November 1989, Montgomery said. He credited the work of China in assisting the U.S. effort and McCloskey acknowledged the help of the Soviet Union. The United States and North Korea have no formal diplomatic relations, and the U.S. military has 43,000 troops in rival South Korea to deter an attack from the North. ``I'm looking forward to ending this chapter on the Korean war and getting on with a better relationship,'' McCloskey said. In addition to Montgomery and McCloskey, the delegation will include Reps. James H. Bilbray, D-Nev.; Bob Stump, R-Ariz.; Bob Traxler, D-Mich.; and Curt Weldon, R-Pa.
AP880329-0071 	X	A day in February when millions of Britons wore red clown noses reaped $25 million for British and African charities, organizers said. ``Comic Relief Day'' was held for the first time on Feb. 5, and accompanied by a seven-hour ``laughathon'' on television, which raised the bulk of donations through telephone pledges. Two million donors also paid nearly $1 each for a red nose. Bankers in pin stripes, school children, secretaries and others wearing the bulbous badge were a common sight. Even Prince Andrew, second son of Queen Elizabeth II, posed for photographers in a red nose. Organizers on Monday said the funds would be used to help famine victims in Africa and poor youths in Britain.
AP900310-0133 	X	The National Assembly on Saturday pardoned both the Contra rebels and Sandinista government workers accused of wrongdoing in a sweeping amnesty law of ``national reconciliation.'' ``We must avoid political vengeance and block any moves by hotheads in the National Opposition Union,'' said Carlos Nunez, president of the legislature. He was apparently referring to possible reprisals against Sandinista government workers after the opposition takes over April 25. The amnesty was proposed by leftist President Daniel Ortega after he lost the Feb. 25 presidential elections to Violeta Barrios de Chamorro, who headed the National Opposition Union's ticket. The leftist Sandinistas control the National Assembly, and lawmakers passed the law on a vote of 72 in favor with six abstentions. Only 78 of the 96 members were present. The law absolves Nicaraguans, ``residents or not in the country, who commit crimes against public order and against internal security of the state.'' The U.S.-backed Contras, who have fought to overthrow the Sandinistas, have resisted calls from the outgoing and incoming governments to lay down their weapons. About 11,000 Contras are based in border camps in Honduras. The ``Law of General Amnesty and Reconciliation'' was introduced Thursday, replacing an earlier version that prompted significant opposition. The wording of the new version was changed to make the amnesty more sweeping. The amnesty covers public employees who ``presumably committed crimes of failing in their duties, fraud or theft and have not been prosecuted'' between July 1979, when the Sandinistas came to power, and the day the law takes effect. Legislators said it will take effect between March 20-23 when it is published in the official government gazette. Edwin Illescas of the Democratic Conservative Party said he supported the law because he recognized that by holding elections, the Sandinistas were working for peace. He said similar laws had been passed in Argentina, Uruguay and Chile and hastened the return of democracy. The law says it is designed ``to contribute to the national reconciliation of all the sectors of society with the goal of peace and tranquillity to Nicaraguan families.'' ``The union of Nicaraguan families needs the pardon and to forget those deeds that brought anxiety and restlessness in the nation.'' ``The law is not to protect criminals'' but benefits ``people who have worked more than 10 years protecting the revolution,'' Nunez said. The Sandinistas hold 61 seats in the present legislature to 35 for the opposition. The 14-party National Opposition Union will hold a majority in the new legislature, with the Sandinistas remaining the largest single party.
AP900713-0022 	X	New disclosures of harmful radiation releases at the Hanford nuclear reservation in Washington state could help win federal compensation for those who became ill following the emissions in the 1940s, some lawmakers say. ``The federal government owes something if folks have been harmed by these early releases of radiation,'' said Rep. Sid Morrison, a Republican whose district houses the 560-square-mile Hanford reservation near Richland, Wash. An independent panel of scientists released preliminary data Thursday that showed some residents in the early years of atomic bomb building in the 1940s could have been exposed to large doses of radioactive iodine. For a few infants, the doses were as high as 2,900 rad over three years. One rad is the amount of radiation a body organ would absorb from about a dozen chest X-rays. Sen. John Glenn, D-Ohio, said the findings underscore the need for the Energy Department to make public its secret records of health risks at all DOE sites nationwide. He said he was ``surprised and disturbed'' by the results of the dose reconstruction study at Hanford. ``The study suggests that the Hanford residents may have been exposed to more radioactive iodine than from any industrial nuclear facility in the world,'' he said. Sen. Brock Adams, D-Wash., said the Energy Department should launch a major campaign to help locate people who may have been exposed to the radiation. ``The number of curries released over all these years are comparable to the levels released in Chernobyl (in the Soviet Union) ... The missing link is where are the people who were exposed?'' Adams said. ``If we find these people around the country and if there has been injury then the government should compensate them for it,'' Adams said. Rep. Norm Dicks, D-Wash., said if it can be proven that people were injured as a result of the emissions it ``would be only fair'' to compensate them. Sen. Mark Hatfield, R-Ore., said the high doses of radiation exposure during the 1940s suggests a study into thyroid disease should begin immediately. However, he added, ``Radioactive materials have leaked from existing storage tanks at Hanford as recently as last month... I fear the public is left with the impression that the only threat at Hanford existed 30 years ago.'' Some members of Congress are pushing to remove the Energy Department's oversight authority of health and environmental safety at nuclear weapons plants. Rep. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., and Sen. Tim Wirth, D-Colo., have proposed bills to establish independent oversight of DOE's weapons facilities through the Department of Health and Human Services. ``I think that because the federal government has misled the people of the Pacific Northwest, that unless there are truly independent decisions being made on health and safety, the citizens of the Northwest are going to doubt the department's credibility,'' Wyden said. Energy Secretary James Watkins said his department is preparing to enter an inter-agency agreement that would transfer some radiation research activities from DOE to HHS.
AP880727-0040 	X	The Reagan administration said it will make ``no deals'' with Iran after Tehran offered to use its influence to free American hostages in Lebanon if the United States releases Iranian assets frozen in this country. ``I am not willing to make anything that sounds like a deal,'' White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said Tuesday, the same day the proposal was aired by Hashemi Rafsanjani, speaker of the Iranian parliament, in a television interview. ``We have heard this kind of thing before, but as far as we are concerned you just can't link the two,'' Fitzwater said. ``No deals.'' Fitzwater said it is ``interesting that there should be this series of statements,'' but ``the clearest signal they could send is to release the hostages.'' In New York, Vernon Walters, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, said: ``We have said that we will not make deals on this particular issue. We are very interested in getting them (the hostages) out. And if they want to talk, we will be prepared to talk, but that is a speculative question.'' Sen. Patrick J. Leahy, D-Vt., told reporters Tuesday, ``I don't think we can ignore anything that comes our way. But I think we should reject anything that smacks of ransom or blackmail and this sounds like both.'' State Department officials said Iranian officials had made proposals similar to Rafsanjani's previously and the Reagan administration had rejected them. The officials said they assume Rafsanjani was referring to military equipment which had been purchased by the Iranian government during the reign of the Shah of Iran but had not been delivered. President Carter withheld all such deliveries after the hostage crisis began. Carter also refused to return to Iran military equipment which Iranian authorities had sent back to the United States for repair. The officials said they had no dollar figure on the military equipment on which Iran has a claim.
AP880329-0021 	X	Fund raising for a proposed $4 million memorial to black Revolutionary War patriots will begin soon since President Reagan has approved placing the monument in the city's main tourist district. Project coordinator Maurice A. Barboza said the memorial would be the first prominently displayed monument in Washington dedicated to blacks. Barboza said Monday that the president signed legislation Friday permitting the proposed memorial to the 5,000 black veterans to be placed in Area I, which includes the Mall stretching from the Capitol to the Lincoln Memorial, the grassy Ellipse behind the White House, Lafayette Park and West Potomac Park. The next step will be to study specific site plans being developed by three architectural firms and submitting the best one to the National Capital Memorial Commission, Barboza said. The commission and other agencies must recommend a site before it goes to the Secretary of Interior for final approval. Barboza, a Virginia lawyer who has devoted himself full-time to the memorial project, said he hoped to have the Interior Department approval and start work on a design competition in six months. Construction of the memorial must begin by the end of 1991 under an authorizing measure signed into law in late 1986. Barboza said July 4, 1991, is the target date for construction to begin. Barboza predicted the memorial would cost about $4 million and said he hoped to announce a major fund-raising effort within several months. Barboza said he hopes to built the black patriots memorial on the Mall near the Lincoln Memorial, Washington Monument and Constitution Gardens. Legislation allowing the construction of the memorial was enacted in 1986, but another measure was needed to allow it to be built in the city's monument-crowded Area I. That complex procedure was established by officials who worried that the city's prime tourist areas would become cluttered with memorials. The black patriots legislation was pushed through Congress by Rep. Nancy L. Johnson, R-Conn., whom Barboza enlisted in his fight several years ago. He is formerly of Plainville, Conn., in Mrs. Johnson's district.
AP880521-0143 	X	The Swiss Supreme Court on Saturday announced it has ordered a Swiss bank to allow investigators to examine the bank account records of former Philippine President Ferdinand E. Marcos. The court, in a ruling made May 16, denied a request filed by the Credit Suisse in March to bar Swiss investigators from examining the records. The ruling was made to give Swiss judicial authorities the possibility of locating any funds that might have been embezzled by the ousted leader or his family, according to Justice Minstry spokesman Joerg Kistler. The government of Philippine President Corazon Aquino has accused the Marcos family of corruption, fraud, embezzlement and other offenses and has asked Switzerland to help it recover funds deposited in Swiss accounts. But the ruling does not mean that Credit Suisse must return the Marcos fortune to Philippine authorities, Kistler said. He said a request by the Aquino administration for a return of the money was still blocked by appeals and that the accounts have been frozen. The Manila government has estimated that $1 billion of the deposed leader's money was in Swiss banks, most of it in Credit Suisse, but Swiss bankers have said the amount is exaggerated.
AP900322-0157 	X	One of the last persons to receive a Jarvik artifical heart before federal approval of the device was withdrawn died after surgery to replace the pump with a donor organ. He spent 87 days on the device. Carl E. Bryant, 43, of Louisville, died Wednesday, eight hours after the transplant operation, said doctors at Louisville's Jewish Hospital. ``We did everything we could for Carl Bryant,'' said Dr. Laman A. Gray Jr., who transplanted the heart. Physicians said the donor heart, which became available late Tuesday, met the criteria for transplantation. But the left ventricle, or main pumping chamber, failed to function once the heart was inside Bryant. The Jarvik 7-70 assist device was implanted Dec. 22 at Humana Hospital-Audubon by Dr. William DeVries, who pioneered use of the artificial heart. ``The transplant surgery offered Carl's only real chance for survival,'' DeVries said in a statement Wednesday. Bryant was the second-to-last person to receive a Jarvik pump in this country before the U.S. Food and Drug Administration withdrew its approval of the device Jan. 8, said Gary Cole, an executive vice president with Symbion Inc., the Arizona manufacturer of the pumps. The agency said its inspections uncovered ``serious deficiencies'' in the way Symbion was carrying out studies with the device. In February, the FDA said it would allow use of the device as a last resort, but only when all other available treatments had failed and when no other life-saving device could be used. The device was last implanted in the United States in Columbus, Ohio, on Dec. 31, Cole said Thursday. He said two Jarvik pumps have been implanted in other countries since the FDA withdrawal. Cole said 159 Jarviks have been implanted as bridges to transplants since 1985. He said the longest-surviving patient to use the Jarvik while awaiting a donor organ was a French woman. She lived 603 days on the device. Dr. Barney Clark, the first person implanted with a Jarvik heart, died in 1983 after 112 days on the device. He received a Jarvik-7, which was supposed to be a premanent replacement for his heart. Bryant had a massive heart attack in July and underwent cardiac catheterization and angioplastic surgery in his left coronary artery. His wife, Cynthia, took him to the hospital Dec. 16 after he complained of chest pains. Three hours before he was to undergo triple bypass surgery, Bryant suffered a second massive heart attack. DeVries implanted the Jarvik device during a six-hour procedure. ``I have no qualms about Carl being on the assist device at all,'' Cynthia Bryant said. ``It worked wonderfully and may further research to help someone else. And we had three good months together that we would not have had otherwise.''
AP881121-0058 	X	U.S. military authorities are investigating reports that two tear gas canisters exploded outside a nightclub near an American base on Okinawa, a military spokesman said today. The incident was the latest in a series of mishaps to plague U.S. military forces in this country. On Friday, the commander of a U.S. destroyer was relieved of his post after practice shells from his ship reportedly missed hitting a Japanese vessel by 330 yards. Japan lodged a protest over the Nov. 9 incident off Boso Peninsula east of Tokyo. Frederick H. Michaelis Jr. was relieved of command of the guided missile destroyer USS Towers and transferred to Destroyer Squadron 15, military spokesman Rodriguez said. In October, rifle bullets struck a civilian housing area near a firing range on Okinawa. Earlier this month, two Marine helicopters collided in flight over the southern island, killing four servicemen. About 46,000 U.S. troops are stationed in the country under the U.S.-Japan mutual security pact. No injuries or damages were reported in the latest incident in Okinawa, Marine Master Gunnery Sgt. Jake Rodriguez said, but the blasts sent scores of crying, choking people into the streets late Saturday. Little else was known about the incident, Rodriguez added. ``Marine Corps officials acknowledged reports of an apparent release of two CS gas (tear gas) devices in the vicinity of Club Larosa, Chatancho,'' a statement from the U.S. military in Japan said. The residential neighborhood in Chatancho borders the U.S. Kadena Air Base. Military authorities and Japanese police were investigating fragments from the exploded devices to determine their origin and composition.
AP881208-0216 	X	George Bush and Michael Dukakis put on a blizzard of last-minute campaign spending, for a combined total of $33.8 million in the final days of their presidential contest, financial disclosure forms showed Thursday. Dukakis outspent his Republican rival by more than $2 million in the last 2{ weeks, but he ultimately failed to stop Bush's march to victory. Their financial reports filed with the Federal Election Commission covered the period from Oct. 20 to Nov. 28, including bills that were paid off after the Nov. 8 election. Dukakis, who won only 10 states and the District of Columbia, poured out $18 million for his last stand _ much of it going into a TV campaign that featured the Democratic governor of Massachusetts talking to the camera in an intimate manner designed to make him seem less rigid. In the preceding month, Dukakis had spent $10.4 million. The price tag for Bush's final push came to $15.8 million, as he put on his own barrage of commercials and zigzagged across the country campaigning in battleground states. Dukakis showed $42.5 million in net spending for the entire campaign, Bush's $45.3 million. The net expenditures reflect actual spending on the campaign, not including such reimbursable costs as payment for charter plane seats used by the traveling press corps. Dukakis' campaign treasurer, Robert Farmer, said Thursday the Democrats have no reason to feel badly about spending so much money and not winning more states. ``We have nothing to be ashamed of,'' he said. ``It was a very negative campaign and we probably weren't prepared for that and we could have responded earlier.'' Still, Farmer said, Dukakis ran close in several states he did not win, and made a far better showing than Democratic nominee Walter Mondale who won only his home state of Minnesota and the District of Columbia four years ago. ``We are very proud,'' he said in a telephone interview. Farmer noted that in addition to the spending by the Dukakis campaign itself, the Democratic National Committee raised a record $68 million for the election. He said this ``created a level playing field'' for the first time with the traditionally better heeled Republican National Committee. The 380,000 people who gave money to the DNC ``demonstrated there was a lot of commitment to the Democratic party and to Michael Dukakis,'' Farmer said. Each candidate received $46 million from the federal Treasury to pay for their campaigns. The money comes from the voluntary $1 checkoff on individual income tax returns. Both campaigns showed receipts and expenditures in excess of that amount, due to differing accounting practices. Bush borrowed start-up money from the separate fund that is used to pay for legal and accounting compliance with federal election law. In Dukakis' case, it reflected his compliance fund reimbursing his campaign committee for such legal and accounting expenses, said accountant Mary Wong. Dukakis still had bills of $1.7 million, with $4 million available in the bank to pay them off and another $4 million in receivables. Bush had $807,155 in cash on hand, with bills of $764,597 and $911,667 owed to the campaign.
AP880525-0363 	X	Business failures declined by 10.1 percent in the first quarter over a year ago as more farmers and retailers climbed out of the red, a report released Wednesday said. Dun & Bradstreet Corp., a business-information concern, said 15,211 businesses nationwide went under during the first three months of this year, compared with 16,924 in 1987. Joseph W. Duncan, Dun & Bradstreet's chief economist, said 75 percent of the improvement was due to a decline in failures in the agriculture and retailing sectors. First-quarter retailing failures slipped 17 percent, to 2,918 from 3,515, while agriculture failures plunged 53 percent, to 596 from 1,266. ``The strong levels of consumer demand that characterized the early years of the current economic expansion also resulted in a high level of entrepreneurial activity in retailing,'' Duncan said. He attributed the improvement in the agriculture sector to the introduction of Chapter 12 into the federal bankruptcy laws. Chapter 12 protects farmers from their creditors while allowing them to reorganize. Other large declines in business failures included: mining, down 53 percent; transportation and public utilities, down 13.2 percent; manufacturing, down 11.1 percent; and construction, down 9.8 percent, Dun & Bradstreet said. By region, the West-South-Central states _ Texas, Arkansas, Oklahoma and Louisiana _ fared the best, with business failures down nearly 30 percent. But the South Atlantic states _ New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania _ had a 68 percent jump in failures. ``Until further data are available in 1988, it will be difficult to tell if the trend in New York and New Jersey is somehow linked to the October (stock market) crash,'' Duncan said.
AP881209-0249 	X	Plans by the Saudi Arabian Oil Co. to buy half of Texaco Inc.'s refining and marketing assets could further erode the domestic oil industry and increase reliance on foreign supplies, Rep. John Bryant said Friday in asking the treasury secretary to investigate the proposed deal. ``The enormity of this acquisition causes us to believe a second look should be taken at the matter, because of its possible impact on the domestic oil and gas industry and on our ability to become energy independent,'' Bryant said. Bryant, a Dallas Democrat, Sen. Howard Metzenbaum, D-Ohio, Sen. Jeff Bingamon, D-N.M., and Rep. Edward Markey, D-Mass., appealed to Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady to investigate the joint venture, named Star Enterprises, on national security grounds. The Saudi-Texaco deal, announced Nov. 10, would include three refineries, 50 distribution terminals, 1,400 service stations and 10,000 franchised gasoline stations in 23 Eastern and Gulf Coast states. In their letter, the Democrats said they believe the acquisition falls under the law enabling the government to block mergers involving a foreign interests if there is evidence that national security is threatened. The acquisition, they wrote, could ``seriously increase U.S. dependence on foreign oil, threaten the viability of the domestic oil industry and jeopardize the well-being of American consumers.'' ``The lessons of the 1973-74 oil embargo and the 1978-79 shortage taught our country all too well the economic and political consequences of reliance on vulnerable oil supplies,'' the letter said. ``What is particulary noteworthy is that 96 percent of the capacity of the three refineries will be used in refining Saudi Arabian crude oil,'' Bryant said. ``So you've got a circumstance that Saudi Arabia has guaranteed itself an outlet for crude oil into the American market, giving them the option of lowering crude prices while earning increased prices at the gasoline marketing level. This could amount to an enormous loss to domestic producers and leave us even more dependent on foreigh oil.'' Also, he said, foreign countries are immune from our antitrust laws, ``so it's not clear we could enforce antitrust laws against this merged entity if needed to do so to protect consumers from market manipulation.'' He said Saudi Arabia has announced a concerted effort to expand its dominance in U.S. oil markets and that its goal is to become the 10th largest seller of gasoline in the United States as a first step.
AP881011-0013 	X	Vice President George Bush, seeking to exploit Americans' crime fears as a campaign weapon, is turning prison inmate Willie Horton Jr. into a symbol of what he calls opponent Michael Dukakis' liberal views. It was Horton who, while on furlough from the Massachusetts prison where he was serving time for murder, brutally slashed a Maryland man and twice raped his fiancee last year. He is now behind bars in Maryland. Because Dukakis, as Massachusetts governor, was in charge of the prison system at the time, Bush sees the Horton incident as a political mother lode. While polls place crime somewhere in the middle of voters' concerns, it is closely linked to the drug issue, which rides atop the worry list. National crime statistics released this weekend show crime up 1.8 percent last year, ending a five-year decline. And 34.7 million people were victimized by criminals _ nearly one in three American households. ``It has tremendous saliency,'' said GOP political consultant Eddie Mahe. ``It ties into the drug issue so closely. Everybody knows the drug problem is driving the crime problem through the roof.'' Bush had made crime _ and Horton in particular _ the basis for anti-Dukakis campaign speeches and a television spot highlighting the crime issue, and he has recruited Horton's victim _ Cliff Barnes, who was cut 22 times in the stomach _ as a campaign surrogate. Deputy Bush press secretary Mark Goodin even keeps a photo of Horton on the wall in his office. ``I didn't ask to be brought into this,'' Barnes said Monday at a news conference in Texas. ``I didn't invite Willie Horton to my House and I didn't let him out of prison.'' The attack has been going on for weeks, and Dukakis was at first slow to respond. But now the Democratic campaign is fighting back and hoping the emotionalism of Bush's message will backfire by Election Day. Over the weekend, Dukakis called Bush ``shameless'' for using crime victims to win votes. ``Unlike Mr. Bush, I've been a chief executive on the front lines of fighting crime. Unlike Mr. Bush, who will not take responsibility for anything, I as chief executive took full responsibility for that tragic Horton case and acted to change that policy,'' Dukakis said, referring to his signing of a state law in April revoking furloughs for first-degree murderers. Dukakis also has put together a television spot that seeks to shove the issue back at Bush. The ad cites a 1981 rape and murder carried out by an inmate staying at a Houston halfway house that Bush helped start while he was a congressman. Dukakis says two similar murders occurred under the California furlough system in the early 1970s, at a time when Ronald Reagan, then state governor, supported furloughs. Dukakis also points to a 13 percent drop in violent crime in Massachusetts since 1982, the largest decline among major industrial states. He says that as the state's chief executive, he had to face real problems of running the Massachusetts prison system, while Bush has never been tested on the issue. Far from being out of the mainstream, the Massachusetts law allowing prison furloughs is in line with the rest of the nation. A 1987 national survey found that all 50 states, the District of Columbia and the federal prison system have some provision for granting short-term furloughs for prisoners, and two-thirds of them permit furloughs for prisoners serving life terms. Bush's use of the issue is ``an oversimplification of a real complex thing,'' said Emily Herrick, an editor with Contact Inc., the non-profit criminal justice information organization that conducted the survey. More than 200,000 furloughs were granted last year for 53,000 inmates, the survey found. No murders were reported. All but three states _ Hawaii, Oregon and North Carolina _ had success rates in excess of 90 percent, meaning the inmates returned at the appointed time and place without violating terms of the furlough. Bush hit the crime issue again Monday, renewing his proposals to create an anti-gang unit in the Justice Department, spend more money to build prisons and bolster programs to compensate crime victims. ``I think there is something very wrong when there is so much sympathy for criminals and very little left over for victims,'' Bush told a campaign crowd in Trenton, N.J. ``Frankly, law-abiding Americans are fed up with the cruel and unusual punishment inflicted on them by those who are soft on crime.'' Despite his rhetoric, Bush has been short on specifics. Asked what he would do about the furlough issue, the vice president has said only that as president he would have his attorney general review the federal prison system's policies. ``I don't have any specific feelings at all,'' he said, although he said he wants to make sure the federal system doesn't ``slip into the Massachusetts model.''
AP900228-0265 	X	The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials, which rose 52.93 points over the past two sessions, gained 10.13 to 2,627.25. Advancing issues outnumbered declining ones by about 8 to 5 on the New York Stock Exchange, with 928 up, 566 down and 474 unchanged. Big Board volume totaled 184.41 million shares, against 152.59 million in the previous session. The NYSE's composite index added 0.91, closing at 183.07. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index rose 1.50 to 352.90.
AP881026-0051 	X	with Michael Dukakis by saying one of his daughters works for the Democratic nominee but assured viewers: ``She doesn't tell me what questions to ask, I don't tell her how to run the governor's campaign.'' Koppel, host of ABC's ``Nightline'' program, ended his 90-minute interview with the Massachusetts governor Tuesday night br telling viewers he had a ``small housekeeping note.'' He said his daughter, Deidre, works for the Dukakis campaign. ``It was a choice that she made on her own after she graduated from college,'' Koppel said. ``I can tell you without having to worry about shading the truth in any fashion, she doesn't tell me what questions to ask, I don't tell her how to run the governor's campaign, and let that be the end of it.'' Miss Koppel has worked in several areas of the campaign, including the press staff in North Carolina and also in the campaign's Boston headquarters.
AP901229-0110 	X	The Texas House speaker was indicted on charges he accepted $5,000 from a law firm and didn't disclose it, joining legislative leaders in the two other most populous states under an ethical cloud. House speakers in New York and California also are under scrutiny as they prepare for new legislative sessions. The investigation in Texas also involves other legislators. A Travis County grand jury returned indictments on two misdemeanor charges Friday against Gib Lewis, alleging he solicited and received a gift from the San Antonio-based law firm of Heard Goggan Blair & Williams, then failed to report it. Despite the charges, Lewis' lawyer said the lawmaker would seek an unprecedented fifth term as House speaker. Lewis has denied the allegations and his lawyer said he'd plead innocent to the charges. ---&equals; NEW YORK (AP) - Authorities blamed the first snowstorm of the season for an electrical fire that trapped four rush-hour trains in a smoke-filled subway tunnel, killing one person and injuring more than 150 others. In Boston, authorities investigating a trolley accident that injured 33 people Friday said tests showed the trolley driver had high levels of alcohol in his system. It was the second rail accident this month in the city's Back Bay section. The driver of the trolley, which rammed a streetcar that was unloading passengers, blamed faulty brakes for the collision, officials said. But investigators ruled that out as a possible cause, said Peter Dimond, spokesman for the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority. The fire Friday morning in New York filled trains with smoke in a subway tunnel linking Manhattan and Brooklyn. Fire and transit officials said melting snow from a 7-inch snowfall overnight apparently caused an electrical short-circuit. ---&equals; WASHINGTON (AP) - Vice President Dn Quayle doesn't abide discrimination at golf clubs, his office says, but he still plays at one of the most exclusive all-male courses near the capital as an honorary member. Quayle on Friday canceled a second round of golf at the all-white Cypress Point golf club near Monterey, Calif., after he learned the facility was mired in a racial controversy, said his press secretary, David Beckwith. He had played there Thursday, unaware, Beckwith said, that the club was ruled ineligible for its share of the 1991 AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am tournament next month because it has no black members. Quayle was ``unwilling to leave any impression that he condones any form of discrimination,'' so he left California and returned to Vail, Colo., where he had been on a skiing vacation, Beckwith said. But the spokesman said he could not explain why Quayle is an honorary member of the Burning Tree Club in suburban Bethesda, Md., which bars women from its course. ---&equals; SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - California stopped telling casual marijuana users ``smoke a joint, go to jail'' 15 years ago. But the federal government's new version - ``smoke a joint, lose your driver's license'' - promises to rekindle debate over the state's pot law. A little-noted amendment to a new federal highway funding law seeks to use federal funding as a weapon against liberal state drug laws. It would particularly affect California and New York because of those states' relatively liberal marijuana laws and large amounts of federal funding. The federal law calls for every state to pass a law in 1991-92 requiring a six-month driver license suspension for anyone convicted of violating any drug law, including possession of marijuana for personal use. States that refuse could lose 5 percent of their federal highway aid in the 12 months starting Oct. 1, 1993. That would be $60 million at current levels of aid to California, said the amendment's sponsor, Rep. Gerald Solomon, R-N.Y. The amendment passed in July. Leaders of California's Democratic-controlled Legislature chafed at the federal interference, but Gov.-elect Pete Wilson, a Republican, agrees that the state's drug laws are too lenient. Solomon's amendment lets a state avoid a monetary penalty only if both the Legislature and the governor oppose the requirement of license suspensions.
AP900220-0273 	X	Domestic steel production totaled 1,812,000 net tons during the week ending Feb. 17, 1990, down 0.1 percent from the previous week, according to the American Iron and Steel Institute. The week's production represented 80.9 percent of the industry's domestic capacity, the steel industry group said Tuesday. American steelmakers produced 2,005,000 net tons in the same week last year, AISI said. Domestic steel production so far this year is 12,191,000 net tons, 9.6 percent below last year's pace, AISI said. Production by district for last week, (previous week in parentheses). North East Coast 236,000 tons (232,000 tons); Pittsburgh-Youngstown 277,000 tons (249,000 tons); Lake Erie 143,000 tons (139,000 tons); Detroit 150,000 tons (151,000 tons); Indiana-Chicago 454,000 tons (493,000 tons); Southern 252,000 tons (245,000 tons); Western 95,000 tons (93,000 tons).
AP900502-0062 	X	The United States will suffer a sharp loss of influence in Europe if Americans withdraw their troops, West German Defense Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg says. ``In the past, American cooperation and influence on European policy was helpful, and in future, American policy and influence in Europe can be helpful,'' Stoltenberg said Tuesday evening. ``But without any soldiers or significant (numbers of) soldiers, your influence in all matters of security policy will sharply decline,'' he added. ``And I doubt whether this is desirable.'' Stoltenberg said in a speech before the American Institute for Contemporary German Studies of the Johns Hopkins University that Americans should maintain a substantial military presence for the foreseeable future. He said the United States might be able to reduce its forces in Central Europe beyond the 195,000 troops proposed by President Bush, if that could be coordinated with European allies and the Soviet Union. The defense minister met with Defense Secretary Dick Cheney earlier Tuesday, and they discussed German unification and other European issues, Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams said. A Pentagon source who spoke on background said the officials discussed problems with East-West talks in Vienna to cut conventional forces in Europe. He declined to say what the problems were. Stoltenberg called on the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to retain nuclear forces in Europe, but said their numbers should be greatly reduced.
AP900913-0069 	X	Some soldiers being sent to the Persian Gulf have their children at home to worry about. But Air Force reservist Lorain Kuryla, who is nicknamed ``Grambo,'' also has her five grandchildren. When the United States began sending troops to the gulf after Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait, Kuryla _ an Air Force reservist for 19 years _ didn't hesitate to answer a call for volunteers. ``This is what I've been trained for, and I'm glad for the opportunity to serve my country,'' said Kuryla, who turns 63 on Friday. ``In fact I feel better about going because I have no small children at home to care for,'' she adds. ``I feel it will relieve pressure from young mothers and fathers about being sent.'' ``It's kind of weird to think of my mother with an M-16,'' said her son, Michael Kuryla, 37. ``I can honestly say that my mother wears combat boots.'' Leaving behind her family in west suburban Hillside, Kuryla, a master sergeant from the 928th Tactical Airlift Group, left O'Hare International Airport on Wednesday, bound for the Middle East. Kuryla works in Air Force personnel and will be one of three officers sent to the region to handle records, her son said. The grandchildren were the ones to come up with the ``Grambo'' nickname.
AP901213-0197 	X	A company that once beamed pornographic movies via satellite to television viewers pleaded guilty to a second federal charge, prosecutors said. Home Dish Only Satellite Networks Inc. will pay a $150,000 fine and has stipulated that movies it distributed via satellite, such as ``Hard Core Girlfriends'' and ``Ramb-Ohh Sex Platoon,'' were pornographic by community standards, Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard Lambert said Wednesday. The movies were beamed to 30,000 subscribers to its American Exxxtasy Channel. Company attorneys appeared Wednesday before U.S. District Judge Aldon Anderson. They entered the plea to a count of distribution of obscene matter via satellite transmission. As part of the plea bargain, company operators Paul L. Klein and Jeffrey Younger have promised to refrain from promoting or distributing sexually explicit films or publications and will cooperate with investigators looking into the pornography industry, Lambert said. The company pleaded guilty to a similar charge Nov. 29 in Buffalo, N.Y. Until investigators pulled the plug on the operation last March, Home Dish was the only nationwide satellite network beaming hard-core pornography to home television viewers, the Justice Department said. The movies were transmitted from the company's Buffalo office to a satellite uplink station operated by U.S. Satellite Inc. in Murray, Utah, which in turn relayed them to a satellite. In Salt Lake, the company pleaded guilty for the Feb. 26 transmission of the movie ``Hard Core Girlfriends,'' Lambert said. The charge in New York stemmed from the transmission a day earlier of a movie entitled ``Hot Shorts.'' U.S. Attorney Dee Benson in Utah said U.S. Satellite was not prosecuted because it cooperated with the investigation. Benson said Klein and Younger were not prosecuted individually because of their willingness to stay out of the business and cooperate with a Department of Justice's investigation into the pornography industry.
AP880506-0195 	X	Secretary of State George P. Shultz is gearing up for a trip to the Middle East in June in another effort to promote Arab-Israeli peace talks, a U.S. official said Friday. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said a final decision to make the trip is likely next week. Shultz would make stops in Israel, Egypt, Jordan and Syria, hoping to open negotiations over Palestinian self-rule and then on an overall Mideast settlement. He would fly to the Middle East at the windup of the Moscow summit meeting June 2 and then attend a meeting of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization's foreign ministers in Madrid June 9-10, the official said. Two trips by Shultz to the Middle East this year failed to produce peace talks, but the secretary refuses to give up. ``Who's afraid to struggle against odds?,'' he said at the end of the last venture in April. ``What am I saving myself for, anyway?'' He also suggested that Arabs and Israelis, despite their public lack of enthusiasm for negotiations, had privately urged him to keep trying. Shultz's first goal is a peace conference that would sponsor, but not steer, negotiations to provide some form of self-rule for the 1.5 million Palestinian Arabs who live on the Israeli-held West Bank and in Gaza. The secretary told a Senate appropriations subcommittee last week that ``under the right circumstances'' King Hussein of Jordan would be agreeable. However, he also testified that Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir had made the conference the ``centerpiece'' of his objections to Shultz's plan. Shultz also was unsuccessful last month in Moscow in trying to persuade the Soviet Union to accept a limited role in the negotiations. Shamir _ and Shultz _ are unwilling to give the Soviets an opportunity to shape the outline of an Arab-Israeli settlement. But Hussein is insisting on Soviet involvement. On the other hand, Jordan is resisting negotiations with Israel without a guarantee that it would recover all the land it lost during the 1967 Mideast war. Shultz has advised Hussein that was not ``in the cards.'' But he backs the idea of Israel trading some territory on the West Bank for peace and said the future of Jerusalem should be decided in negotiations. Despite the long odds, Shultz said he did not think his plan was ``fated to failure.'' Shultz's plan called for a peace conference in mid-April, the opening of negotations on the Palestinians May 1 and a second stage of talks on an overall settlement beginning Dec. 1. The first two deadlines have passed. Still, Shultz has said he will keep trying to get negotiations started in the 8{ months that remain to the Reagan administration in order to give the next president a head start.
AP880827-0061 	X	A second former U.S. soldier involved in a spy ring that sold secrets to the Soviets apparently provided information that led to the arrest of the alleged ringleader, a West German newspaper said today. The Die Welt newspaper of Bonn also said that ``no charges have been filed against the (second) American citizen, although he is still in the Federal Republic.'' The man alleged to have led the ring, former U.S. Army Sgt. Clyde Lee Conrad, remained in prison today, facing espionage charges carrying a maximum 10-year sentence. Conrad allegedly paid another U.S. soldier ``a five-figure sum'' for obtaining secret NATO information, according to chief West German prosecutor Kurt Rebmann. ``The information that led to the arrest of the alleged international spy ringleader, former U.S. Army Sgt. Clyde Lee Conrad, apparently came from the U.S. Army soldier who was recruited by Conrad to provide information after Conrad left the service in 1985,'' the conservative Die Welt said. Although the West Germans say the second American was a soldier when he was recruited for espionage, the Washington Post quoted administration sources as saying the man has since left the Army. In Washington, a U.S. official said Friday that Conrad had a top secret security clearance before leaving the U.S. Army. The U.S. official also conceded that Conrad was never subjected to a periodic follow-up investigation during the time he held the high-security clearance. West German and U.S. news media reports have said the spy ring sold the Soviets secret documents about nuclear missile bases, military pipelines and NATO troop strength. Officials say the ring started operating in the late 1970s. According to a report Friday night on CBS News, the 41-year-old Conrad collected more than $1 million for peddling the secrets. CBS attributed the report to a West German newspaper that it did not identify. West German investigators have said they believe Conrad kept the money in numbered Swiss bank accounts.
AP900117-0037 	X	A man claiming he had a bomb took over an America West airliner late Tuesday and demanded to be flown to Cuba, but was arrested soon after the plane made an emergency landing in Austin, police said. No one was seriously injured during Flight 727 from Houston to Las Vegas, with 34 passengers and five crew members aboard, or the arrest at Robert Mueller Municipal Airport, officials said. SWAT team members overpowered the man aboard the plane, officials said. FBI agent Byron Sage identifed the man as Jose Manuel Gonzales-Gonzales, 39, and said he was believed to be from New Orleans. Gonzales-Gonzales was believed to be of Cuban descent. The flight was diverted to Austin and landed shortly before 11:30 p.m. after trouble was reported aboard, America West spokeswoman Kathy Christensen said in Phoenix, where the airline is based. ``The man said he had a bomb and had some electronic device that blinked when he pointed to the front of the aircraft,'' said passenger Herb Atwood of Cold Spring, Texas. ``He grabbed one of the stewardesses and had something around her neck,'' Atwood said in an interview with radio station KVET. ``He was shouting orders. He said he wanted them to fly to Cuba, but the pilot said that we did not have enough fuel.'' The man ordered all the passengers to move to the front of the aircraft, Atwood said. Austin police received a report of a bomb threat at 11:28 p.m., said police spokesman Harold Elmore. After the plane landed, nearly 40 police officers, including hostage negotiators, surrounded the aircraft shortly before midnight. Police Capt. Loyd Polk said he climbed up an escape hatch into the aircraft, then subdued Gonzales-Gonzales. ``I saw he had the stewardess, so I took action immediately,'' Polk said. ``I had a struggle with him, but I was able to hold him to the ground until more help arrived.'' Passengers evacuated the plane, and police began searching the airplane for a bomb. ``We doubt there was a bomb aboard the plane,'' Elmore said. Gonzales-Gonzales was taken to a hospital early Wednesday for treatment of cuts to his head suffered when he was arrested, said city emergency services shift commander Bob Gutierrez. The stewardess who was grabbed was also taken to a hospital for minor cuts and burns when coffee spilled on her, Gutierrez said. Several passengers were treated at the airport for minor injuries suffered when they evacuated the aircraft. Elmore said passengers were taken to an airport terminal for questioning. City aviation director Charles Gates said the passengers would be put up in a hotel for the night and flown out Wednesday morning. Sage said authorities intended to charge the man with air piracy and kidnapping. ``You always hear about this,'' passenger Atwood said, ``and I never thought it would happen to me. I was scared like everyone else. I was looking forward to a trip to Vegas. But my gambling ended before it started.''
AP880228-0016 	X	An Oklahoma State Penitentiary inmate who had armed himself with a screwdriver and took three hostages gave up late Saturday after he was apparently overpowered by a hostage staff member. Correction Department spokesman Jerry Massie said the hostage situation ended shortly after 11 p.m. Saturday, more than 12 hours after it began. ``There was some kind of a scuffle'' inside the office where inmate Robert Taylor was holding two prisoners and a staff counselor, Massie said. The four men then came walking out. ``Everyone seems to be fine,'' Massie said. ``There appears to be no serious problems.'' He said the hostages, identified as prison counselor Chuck Ryden and inmates Robert King and Allen Livingston, were taken to the prison's medical unit to be examined for injuries. ``We don't know exactly what happened yet,'' Massie said. ``It looks like the officer (Ryden) was able to overpower the inmate.'' Taylor's only weapon was apparently a screwdriver, authorities said. Linda Morgan, a public information officer at the prison, said Taylor grabbed Ryden, a correctional counselor, at about 10:20 a.m. after they went together to an office to discuss a problem. ``The other two inmates were out cleaning and painting and entered the office to get more supplies at which time they became hostages themselves,'' she said. Saturday afternoon, Taylor's request for a pitcher of tea was granted in exchange for allowing a prison doctor to examine Ryden. The counselor had his blood pressure checked and ``seemed fine,'' Ms. Morgan said. Taylor had demanded that the warden contact the governor's office and that he be allowed to have an attorney present when he presented his grievances. Ms. Morgan declined to say what the grievances were, other than to say that he originally approached the counselor with a complaint about his prison diet. Ms. Morgan said Taylor is serving a 15-year sentence for second-degree burglary and had been an inmate at the prison since 1986. Warden James Saffle had said he wouldn't meet with Taylor or contact the governor's office until the situation has ended, Ms. Morgan said. Ms. Morgan said that approximately80 prisoners live in the cells in the section of the prison where the incident took place, and ``all are in their cells.'' The McAlester penitentiary was the site of an uprising in December 1985 when inmates protesting prison conditions held seven hostages for nearly 17 hours before releasing them unharmed. The institution has been under a 23-hour-a-day lockdown since that episode, officials said.
AP881010-0194 	X	When Marisa Fernandez de Sanda went to a doctor in 1981 to complain about terrible itching and aches all over her body, she was told these were ``normal signs of spring.'' But as spring turned to summer and her condition grew worse, the 25-year-old mother of a small son and a baby began to think about the five-quart plastic jug of bargain ``olive oil'' she bought on the advice of a neighbor and the news she was seeing on television about people dying from something called ``atypical pneumonia.'' Eventually more than 700 people would be dead and 25,000 others would become mysteriously ill. Marisa Fernandez was one who became ill. ``I had always bought sunflower oil, but after my second pregnancy, the doctor recommended olive oil,'' she said in a recent interview in her home in the Province of Madrid. ``So when my neighbor said she knew a man who was selling it real cheap, I thought, here's a bargain.'' Her friend Clara Burgues de Dominguez bought three jugs of the oil at a street market because her husband was unemployed ``and every peseta counts when you're trying to make ends meet.'' In July 1981 both Marisa Fernandez and Clara Burgues were admitted to the hospital and told they were suffering from what had gone from ``atypical pneumonia'' to a mysterious ``toxic syndrome'' that developed from the oil the two women thought was olive oil but in fact allegedly was rapeseed oil processed for industrial use, not for human consumption. The state brought 38 defendants to trial on charges of involvement in the import, refining and sale of the oil. Fifteen months of hearings ended in June but the verdict of the three-judge tribunal is not expected for six months, possibly a year. The state claims the oil was the cause of the deaths and the illness that affects the respiratory system, nerves, joints and muscles. ``I used the oil for everything _ making stews, frying meat and potatoes, salads, making mayonnaise,'' Marisa Fernandez said. ``I loved to dip bread in it when I was cooking and eat it on the spot.'' Her husband, Juan, and son, David, fell ill briefly but were not hospitalized. The baby did not become ill but was without his mother for the first six months of his life, something Juan Sanda thinks was equally as serious. ``The first time I was hospitalized for 25 days, my weight had fallen from 56 to 43 kilos (123 to 94 pounds),'' Marisa Fernandez said. ``I was in a room with about 25 other women, and they pumped us full of pills and shots. Every day someone would leave, and we would know they had died.'' Said Clara Burgues: ``When the pain got too bad, we would grab on to lamp posts when we were walking in the street. ``When we went to the hospital, they treated us like guinea pigs. They didn't know what to do with us, how to treat us, what to treat us for. They didn't have enough beds so they processed us through real quick. Then we just had to be readmitted again when it became unbearable.'' Marisa Fernandez returned to the hospital in September 1981, unable to use her hands or feet or to feed herself. ``I had no appetite, and all around me, people, particularly young girls, were dying.'' At 33, after three years of acupuncture and continuing twice weekly physical therapy sessions with other toxic syndrome sufferers, she still has frequent cramps and little feeling on the right side of her body. She can no longer type and can't work outside her home and receives from the government a monthly disability pension the equivalent of $270. ``There is something all those affected seem to feel,'' she said, looking at a photograph of herself, emaciated, in a bathing suit following her hospitalization. ``We all carry the disease on our faces, like a shadow.'' Although the Spanish press and most of those affected by the toxic syndrome blame the oil for the illness, Clara Burgues is not so sure. ``When I testified at the trial, they asked me to say whether I believed the oil was the cause of my problems. I told them how did they expect me, a housewife from a lower-middle class neighborhood, to answer that question. I told them of 28 people among my neighbors who all used the oil, I was the only one who got sick. But then they all ate tomatoes, too.'' That was a reference to the claim of some defense attorneys that the illness was due to organophosphate pesticides used on tomatoes grown in southeastern Spain around Almeria. Dr. Richard Doll, chief pathologist for Britain's Imperial Cancer Research Fund, testified at the trial that the oil was the cause of the illness. Researchers from the Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta and the European branch office of the World Health Organization agreed with Doll's finding. Both Marisa Fernandez and Clara Burgues say they are not sure they will ever get out from under the shadow of the mysterious illness. ``When it first struck, we were treated like lepers by neighbors and sometimes even family. They were afraid they would catch it,'' Marisa Fernandez said. The illness, once thought to be caused by a virus, is not contagious. Added Clara Burgues: ``But even now that we appeared to have recovered, we always have doubts _ whenever we get something, an ache, a problem, we wonder, could it be something caused by the illness. We are living the syndrome of the toxic syndrome.''
AP880819-0098 	X	Douglas and Joan Wolff know health care costs are skyrocketing, but they found a $15,543 bill for emergency room treatment of Wolff's minor scrapes a little hard to swallow. Speaking of swallowing, Wolff was charged more than $3,000 apiece for the five Tylenol capsules he was given. Mrs. Wolff said Thursday that reading the computerized bill almost sent them both back to the emergency room. ``At first we were shocked. We couldn't believe it,'' she said. ``Then we just had to laugh. We knew it had to be a mistake because all he did was get cleaned up over there.'' St. Mary-Corwin Hospital administrators acknowledged the computer error and assured the Wolffs an amended version of the bill would arrive soon. The bill was not without a touch of heart. The hospital offered the couple a 10 percent discount if the bill was paid within 20 days. The discount of $1,554 would bring the total due down to a mere $13,989.
AP880412-0049 	X	Twenty-seven people who attended a dinner following a funeral in northeastern China came down with food poisoning and 14 of them died, the official China Daily reported today. The 13 others became seriously ill after the dinner last week in Yixian County, according to the report. The dinner was held by Yu Huqing, head of the gardening department of Jinzhou City in Yixian County following the death of his mother, the newspaper said. The report did not say if Yu was among those who died.
AP900112-0142 	X	President Bush warned Congress on Friday not to look for big savings from Pentagon spending and complained that his key domestic initiatives were mired ``in the jungles on Capitol Hill.'' While applauding the dramatic changes in Eastern Europe, Bush cautioned against expectations of any ``peace dividend'' in the military budget, saying that is ``not money in the bank. It is more like a possible future inheritance.'' Meanwhile, he said, ``It's impossible today to know what will unfold in the next six months, let alone the next six years.'' Bush said the U.S. invasion of Panama was proof that America must have a ``ready and highly effective defense force.'' The president spoke to about 1,500 people at a gathering of the Greater Cincinnati Chamber of Commerce. Later, he met privately with the family of Army Pfc. James Markwell, a Ranger medic killed by gunfire in his drop zone in the Panama invasion. The White House said Bush expressed his personal sympathy and gratitude for the sacrifice that Markwell made for his country. Press Secretary Marlin Fitzwater, speaking with reporters later, said the president's talk with the family of the dead soldier was ``a pretty emotional meeting.'' Fitzwater said that ``we were all pretty broken up about it,'' referring to the president, as well as several aides and Secret Service agents. Fitzwater said that the soldier's mother, Mrs. William Rouse, showed the president a poem that her son had written when he was 15 years old about being in the military, as well as a ``death message'' that he had written before going into combat. Fitzwater said that in that message her son ``was proud of what he was doing. It was a little message for each of the people he knew in life.'' ``That was really tough,'' Fitzwater said. Bush also has sent letters of condolence to the families of all those killed in Panama, officials said. The president's combative stand toward Congress sets the tone for legislative battles likely to erupt after lawmakers return to work Jan. 23. Bush will send his budget to Congress on Jan. 29 and deliver his State of the Union Address on Jan. 30. He said the Democratic-controlled Congress had stalled action on his plans to lower capital gains taxes, beef up education programs, strengthen clean-air regulations and fight crime. ``And these four issues are bogged down in the jungles on Capitol Hill,'' Bush said. ``The clock is running and America's patience is running out,'' Bush said. While saying he was not trying to assign any blame, Bush said, ``America wants it done right, America wants it done responsibly and America wants it done now.'' The fall of hardline communist governments in Eastern Europe has prompted calls in Congress and elsewhere for lowering defense spending and targeting the money for other purposes. ``That's like the next-of-kin who spend the inheritance before the will is read,'' Bush said. ``Of course, whenever a potential inheritance looms,'' he said, ``there are those eager to rush out and squander it, to buy new things, to spend, to spend, to spend _ spending funds they don't yet have. ``Then the bills start coming, and the inheritance may not,'' Bush said. ``And what was promised as a bonus becomes a burden.'' He won applause by saying, ``most Americans know we not only must maintain our defenses but still must reduce the deficit.'' Bush also paid a visit to predominantly black Taft High School, where he hailed a program of business leaders, government officials and educators to reduce dropouts and improve academic performance. Several speakers told Bush there was a sense of hopelessness among inner-city youths and asked what he could do about it. He said the best answer was ``encouraging the strength of the family.'' Bush said federal resources for education were limited but that he would call for some increases in overall school spending when he presents his fiscal 1991 budget to Congress on Jan. 23, including expanding the Head Start program for disadvantaged pre-school children. But, the president added, ``I don't think you can design a curriculum to lift the self-esteem of a kid. It's got to come from peers, it's got to come from family, it's got to come from dedicated volunteers or workers who are saying, `Hey, you are somebody. You can amount to something.''
AP900929-0103 	X	Cardinal Bernard Yago said Saturday a plot to assassinate Pope John Paul II was uncovered prior to a papal visit earlier this month, but denied Ivory Coast opposition parties were involved. The cardinal attributed the plot to a group based in Ghana, and condemned President Felix Houphouet-Boigny for disclosing details about the plot. ``He should have kept it secret. ... He has held political interests above those of the (Roman Catholic) Church,'' the cardinal said in rare criticism of Ivory Coast's leader of 30 years. The cardinal noted Houphouet-Boigny accusation's came as the president faced the nation's first multiparty elections on Oct. 28. The 85-year-old president did not name those he claimed were responsible for hiring mercenaries and former soldiers to kill John Paul when he visited Ivory Coast on Sept. 9-10. No attack was made on the pontiff. Yago said one assassination plotter had confessed to a parish priest, and said he was ``disgusted'' by Houphouet-Boigny's ``political use'' of knowledge that came from the confessional. Emile Boga, a leader of the opposition Ivorian Popular Front, called the assassination plot allegations ``a fabrication.'' The cardinal said the pontiff had been told about the plot before the visit. Earlier, chief Vatican spokesman Joaquin Navarro, asked about Houphouet-Boigny's claim, said, ``We never comment on such matters.''
AP901129-0066 	X	President Bush's quest to aid the poor by substituting self-help programs for government handouts is sparking friction among White House aides, administration officials and conservative members of Congress. It even prompted a call by Rep. Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., for Budget Director Richard Darman either to recant a recent speech or resign. A group of conservative policy makers inside the White House, with strong backing from HUD Secretary Jack Kemp, is pressing to make ``empowering'' initiatives in housing, education and welfare the centerpiece of Bush's next State of the Union address. The general philosophy, say those backing the concept, is to give people tools to help themselves, rather than having government social programs do it for them. For example, housing legislation signed by Bush on Wednesday aims to help poor people buy public housing apartments or vacant homes. ``A cornerstone of our effort to reduce the heavy hand of government is this idea of empowering people, not bureaucracies,'' the president said in signing the measure. The debate was sparked partly by a speech last April by James P. Pinkerton, Bush's deputy assistant for policy planning, in which he said the idea is to enact ``policies that empower people to make choices for themselves.'' But the concept drew a public rebuke earlier this month from Darman, who ridiculed the slogan of ``the new paradigm'' as pretentious and meaningless. Darman dismissed the idea of boosting the use of vouchers and decentralized policymaking as a throwback to old initiatives that did not work in the 1960s. ``We now find ourselves encouraged to embrace several programmatic ideas that are returning from a quarter-century hiatus, but which have not yet been seriously tested or evaluated,'' Darman said in a Nov. 16 speech to the Council for Excellence in Government, a private watchdog group. The ideas are ``little more than slogans,'' he said. Darman's words infuriated conservatives. Gingrich denounced the Darman speech as ``an assault on members of his own party'' and demanded Wednesday night that Darman either recant or resign. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said Darman and Gingrich had smoothed over their differences in a telephone conversation today, and that Darman was not withdrawing the speech. ``Director Darman and Newt had a long conversation this morning and they `re great and good friends, and there's no problem,'' said Fitzwater. Asked if Bush stood by his budget director, Fitzwater said, ``Sure.'' In an era when communist regimes around the world are collapsing, Bush is warming to the theme of putting power back in the hands of people and out of the grip of centralized bureaucracies. The National Affordable Housing Act - including $25 billion this year and $27 billion in fiscal 1992 - provides grants for low-income families to buy their public housing units or homes that are vacant or have been foreclosed. The measure provides $155 million for such projects this year and $885 million for 1992. It also authorizes $123 million this fiscal year and $258 million for 1992 to provide housing and services for the homeless. And, it contains a new block grant program, authorizing $1 billion for this year and $2.1 billion for 1992 to promote partnerships by federal, state and local governments with private groups and industry to meet housing needs, the White House said. Earlier Wednesday, Kemp briefed members of the Domestic Policy Council on possible initiatives under consideration for the State of the Union address and fiscal 1992 budget. Bush named Kemp on Aug. 6 to head a task force on empowerment. The ideas that Kemp and the White House conservatives are touting, including vouchers to give parents wider choice in education, inner-city enterprise zones and tenant ownership of public housing, are hardly new. In fact, former President Reagan went to bat for most of them to no avail. But their advocates are banking on rising public dissatisfaction with government to give new life to these old ideas. ``The new paradigm enables the GOP to move forward in these areas and do good, without going back to the Great Society of noble rhetoric and unintended consequences,'' Pinkerton said in April. For Republicans, he said, ``fighting taxes and communists has brought us about as far as it can. ... The future growth of the Republican party depends on our ability to address voters' concerns about other important issues, such as health, child care, education and pollution.''
AP900207-0057 	X	A computer hacker broke into the 911 emergency telephone network covering nine states in the South and another intruder passed on the access data to other hackers, authorities said. Robert J. ``The Prophet'' Riggs, 20, of Decatur, Ga., and Craig M. ``Knight Lightning'' Neidorf, 19, of Chesterfield, Mo., were indicted Tuesday by a federal grand jury and accused of computer crimes, said acting U.S. Attorney Ira H. Raphaelson. He said Riggs was a member of the so-called Legion of Doom hackers group, whose members are involved in numerous illegal activities. Riggs and two other alleged members also were indicted Tuesday in Atlanta and charged in other computer break-ins. The government would not say if any emergency calls were disrupted or whether other damage was done during the tampering. ``These were not teen-agers playing games,'' Raphaelson said. ``They are thieves, they're reckless and they're dangerous.'' In the Chicago case, Riggs is accused of entering Atlanta-based Bell South's 911 system with a computer, stealing a copy of the program that controls the system and publishing this data on a hackers' computer bulletin board in Lockport. Neidorf is accused of transferring the data to his computer at the University of Missouri in Columbia, where he allegedly edited it for a computer hacker publication known as PHRACK. There was no immediate comment from either defendant. Directory information had no listing for Riggs, and there was a recorded message at the Neidorf residence. Neidorf's attorney, Art Margulis, said he had not seen the indictment so he could not comment. Raphaelson said industry specialists estimate that $3 billion to $5 billion is lost yearly to computer fraud. He said this is the fourth hacker case brought by the federal government in the past year. Bell South's 911 controls emergency calls to municipal police, fire, ambulance and emergency services in Alabama, Mississippi, Georgia, Tennessee, Kentucky, Louisiana, North Carolina, South Carolina and Florida. ``People who invade our telecommunications and related computer systems for profit or personal amusement create immediate and serious consequences for the public at large,'' said Raphaelson. He said the 911 data was valued at nearly $80,000, but would not say how a hacker could profit by stealing this data, other than by selling the information to others. Riggs, if convicted on all charges, could be sentenced to 32 years in prison and fined $222,000. Neidorf could be sentenced to 31 years and fined $122,000 on conviction. Riggs and Neidorf are charged with interstate transportation of stolen property, wire fraud and violations of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986.
AP900909-0030 	X	Police opened fire Sunday to disperse crowds of blacks in Soweto angered by an overnight attack on a squatter camp that killed at least 10 people. At least three people were wounded during Sunday's confrontations, according to a witness. A total of 32 people had died in black factional fighting since Saturday, reports said. Hundreds have died since the violence in black townships near Johannesburg began less than one month ago. Residents accused Zulu supporters of the conservative Inkatha movement of launching the nighttime attack with police help. They also said masked white men took part in the assault on Soweto's Tladi squatter camp. The head of the South African Council of Churches, the Rev. Frank Chikane, visited the camp and said he had seen enough to know that ``police are involved in killing us.'' Police fought running battles with residents hurling rocks and firebombs throughout the morning near the camp in the sprawling township southwest of Johannesburg. At least three blacks were wounded when police opened fire with birdshot and live ammunition, a witness said. Earlier, police had fired tear gas and rubber bullets at the residents. The Independent South African Press Association reported a crowd of about 100 people attacked the camp on Saturday night, assaulting occupants and smashing dwellings. A total of 26 people were killed in Soweto over the weekend, police said Sunday. Residents and witnesses said 13 died at the Tladi squatter camp, but police could not confirm that figure. Six other deaths were reported Sunday in other Johannesburg-area townships, including four men found stabbed in a van at a squatter camp near Vosloorus, south of the city. Fighting between Zulu Inkatha backers and Xhosas and other blacks loyal to the African National Congress has killed nearly 600 people in black townships near Johannesburg since Aug. 12. Black leaders and others have accused police of fueling the violence by siding with the Inkatha fighters. Police and government officials have denied the charge, saying some officers may have acted improperly but that the force as a whole was impartial. Police confirmed Saturday they would investigate the allegations. A police spokesman told the government-operated South African Broadcasting Co. that witnesses would be interviewed. The leftist ANC and more conservative Inkatha blame each other for the factional fighting. Both groups oppose apartheid but differ over tactics and plans for a future South Africa. The two sides have been fighting for supremacy since 1986 in the eastern province of Natal. Those battles have resulted in about 5,000 deaths.
AP900611-0166 	X	The stock market headed higher today, rebounding from last week's setback. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials, down 34.95 points last week, rose 19.30 to 2,881.68 by noontime on Wall Street. Gainers outnumbered losers by about 9 to 8 in nationwide trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed issues, with 681 up, 611 down and 513 unchanged. Analysts said traders were doing some selective ``bargain-hunting'' in the blue chips while they awaited a broad array of economic reports due from the government this week. Among the monthly statistics on the agenda for Wall Street are the producer price index of finished goods, due on Thursday, and the consumer price index and the nation's trade balance, both on Friday. If all goes as expected, brokers say, the data will support the popular view that economic growth is plodding along at a pace slow enough to permit inflation and interest rates to ease. However, they add, any surprises in the numbers could unsettle some of the optimism that built up during the rally the carried stock prices to new highs as recently as last Monday. Boeing climbed 1&rsqb; to 56~ on expectations of a big order from Korean Airlines for Boeing 747-400 jets. Elsewhere among the blue chips, International Business Machines rose 1&lsqb; to 119~; American Telephone & Telegraph &rsqb; to 42&rsqb;; General Motors | to 49&lsqb;, and DuPont &rsqb; to 39{. Microcom Inc. tumbled 8{ to 9} as the most active issue in the over-the-counter market. Late Friday the company projected a loss for the fiscal quarter ending June 30, saying major domestic distributors were overstocked with its software and modem products. The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks added .52 to 196.57. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index slippesd .09 to 361.08. Volume on the Big Board came to 60.05 million shares at noontime, against 69.98 million at the same point Friday.
AP881004-0119 	X	The House on Tuesday killed a move to establish procedures to review the continued detention of Cubans who entered the United States during the 1980 Mariel boatlift. Under legislation defeated by a 271-144 vote, Mariel aliens denied parole would have been given the right to a hearing before an administrative law judge. The hearing would have been required within 90 days after the end of a Justice Department review, or within 90 days of the alien's detention by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The legislation provided that to continue detention, the department would have to prove that the detainee would pose a threat to the community or would violate reasonable conditions of release. Aliens released under the legislation would only have been sent to a halfway house or to a suitable sponsor. Mariel Cubans not released under the procedures would have had annual reviews, to determine whether circumstances justified reopening hearings. More than 125,000 Cubans came to the United States between April and October 1980, when Cuba opened its port of Mariel for citizens wishing to leave. The group included many people with criminal records and mental illness. Last year, Cuban detainees rioted at the Oakdale correctional facility in Louisiana and the federal prison in Atlanta after the United States and Cuba agreed to resume a migration agreement. At the time, there were 2,500 Cubans waiting for repatriation. In the wake of the riots, a new Justice Department review program was started for detainees designated for repatriation, and those denied parole by the INS.
AP901023-0068 	X	China's guardians of Marxist ideology announced a new campaign today against pornography and Western liberalism and said they would press on with an anti-crime drive in which hundreds have been executed. The announcements, made in headlines in the Communist Party newspaper, the People's Daily, contradicted widespread expectations that the party would relax its tight social controls after the Asian Games ended Oct. 7 in Beijing. Hong Kong newspapers, many of which have close ties to Chinese officials, had predicted that more participants in last year's failed democracy movement would be released from jail if the games went off smoothly. But Zhou Chengkui, spokesman for the National People's Congress, said on Monday he had no word of forthcoming releases. Today's announcements further indicated the hard-liners who have dominated Chinese politics since June 1989 have no intention of relaxing their hold. Their speeches said that China's current stability is fragile and called for vigilence against alleged anti-party forces. ``At present, our country is politically, economically and socially stable,'' Qiao Shi, the party official in charge of police matters, said in giving the order to continue China's 6-month-old crackdown on crime. ``But we must see clearly that the relatively smooth public order of these few months was achieved through the might of the (crackdown on crime),'' he said. ``In ideology and in work, we cannot relax one whit.'' The international human rights group Amnesty International said last month that more than 720 people were given death sentences in China from January through mid-August, including more than 350 in June and July alone. Official newspapers have reported thousands of arrests since the anti-crime campaign began in May, causing cities to expand their police forces and in some cases form civilian patrols. The party also held an anti-pornography campaign for about six months beginning in June 1989, when the army crushed a student-led movement for democratic reforms. Not only pornographic but pro-democratic publications were seized and burned. Liu Zhongde, who headed that drive, said a new campaign to last through next spring will clean up remaining ``spiritual pollution and cultural garbage.'' The People's Daily quoted him as saying that 12 percent of the country's newspapers, 13 percent of its social science periodicals and more than 7 percent of its publishing houses had been closed since June 1989. He said 32 million books and magazines were destroyed and nearly 80,000 people were convicted for involvement in illegal publising activity. ``This is still just a good beginning,'' he said. ``Some obscene publications that have been explicitly banned have reappeared in new form. Illegal publishing activities have reared their heads.'' He blamed this on ``the bourgeois liberal tide,'' the party's phrase for Western-style democratic ideas such as free speech and multiparty rule. ``People who support bourgeois liberalism ... advocate complete Westernization,'' he said. ``But complete Westernization necessarily opens the door to corrupt and degenerate capitalist things, and thus obscene things are spread.''
AP880427-0032 	X	The Metropolitan Opera filed a lawsuit seeking to ring down the curtain on a bebop, jazz band that calls itself the ``Metropolitan Bopera House.'' In its trademark infringement suit against the jazz quintet, the Met claimed the ``virtually identical'' name ``is likely to cause confusion, deception, mistake.'' But John Marshall, one of the founding members of the Metropolitan Bopera House, called Tuesday's lawsuit ``pretty silly, because we're no threat to them in any way. After all we're playing different kinds of music.'' Bebop is a form of improvisational swing popularized by Charlie ``Bird'' Parker and Dizzy Gillespie, said Marshall. Henry W. Lauterstein, general counsel for the Met, declined to comment further, saying he'd let court papers call the tune. The lawsuit, filed in U.S. District Court, seeks a restraining order against Metropolitan Bopera House to keep them ``from unfairly competing'' with the Met. ``After playing smoke-filled dates and struggling to assert itself in the rough jazz business, it is difficult for our group to see how we could possibly threaten the opera, which seems to feel it has exclusive rights to the word `metropolitan,''' said Marshall, a 35-year-old trumpeter from Brooklyn. The opera house also wants the Bopera House to turn over all their records, labels, advertising _ and anything else with the offending name _ for destruction. According to the lawsuit, the Metropolitan Opera has been the Metropolitan Opera since 1883 and even registered that name and ``Met'' as trademarks. The Met also sought an accounting of Metropolitan Bopera House's profits and unspecified damages for alleged ``willful and wanton, unfair competition and unfair business practices.'' The lawsuit claimed the boppers ``obviously intended to connote a connection or association'' with the Met and were stealing ``its name, good will and reputation.'' Not so, said Marshall, noting that his band, founded 100 years after the Met, took its moniker from a nickname for the Royal Roost, a popular Manhattan jazz club of the 1940s.
AP880629-0030 	X	Former Navy Secretary James H. Webb says he learned last fall of a massive fraud investigation and deliberately kept Defense Secretary Frank C. Carlucci in the dark, figuring the FBI would tell him when it wanted to. Webb, in a telephone interview Tuesday, also said he was told from the start that former Navy official Melvyn R. Paisley was a ``central figure'' in the probe and that a member of his headquarters staff was under scrutiny. Webb said he wasn't told and didn't ask the identity of the official on his staff under investigation. FBI search warrants suggest the Navy official is James Gaines, the deputy assistant secretary for acquisition management. Webb said he never attempted to discuss the matter with Carlucci because ``that wasn't my job.'' ``This was a very close-hold report involving an investigation being conducted by the FBI with the NIS (Naval Investigative Service) cooperating, not the Department of Defense,'' he said. ``My view was that if the FBI wanted to tell Carlucci, they would tell him. How should I know whether they wanted to tell him? Why should I get tangled up in all that?'' Pentagon spokesmen have said Carlucci did not learn of the probe until June 13, the day before FBI agents began executing search warrants at the Pentagon and elsewhere around the country. The former Navy chief added he was originally told the investigation would probably be completed by last Christmas, ``but it kept getting delayed because the net kept expanding.'' Webb, a Vietnam War hero, lawyer, novelist and former assistant defense secretary, became the secretary of the Navy in April 1987 after the resignation of John F. Lehman Jr., who had held the post for six years. Paisley was an assistant secretary of the Navy and one of Lehman's top aides. He left at the same time Lehman did and established a defense consulting business. ``I was, in fact, briefed about this last fall,'' Webb said. ``And I was then periodically updated on it by the chief of the Naval Investigative Service. ``I was told that with respect to the Navy, Paisley was the central figure. I was also told an individual still on my staff was under investigation.'' After the briefing, Webb said, he did two things. ``I told them I didn't want to know who it was on my staff, but please try to hurry up and get the investigation done if that was the case,'' Webb said. ``I didn't like the idea of someone committing felonies when I'm trying to reorganize (with new people). ``And I also asked the NIS to communicate to the FBI my concern that if they were investigating Paisley, it be for substantive matters because of Paisley's relationship with Lehman. I didn't want it to appear to be a witch hunt.'' According to the Justice Department, the NIS began the current investigation two years ago and then called in the FBI. Justice officials say the inquiry centers on allegations that Pentagon executives took bribes from private military consultants who were seeking classified contract information for defense contractors. Webb said his knowledge of details of the investigation always was limited. Asked if he was told there were other ``central figures'' working for other armed services or on the Pentagon staff, Webb replied, ``No comment.'' Webb also said that long before he knew of the investigation, he canceled a consulting contract between Paisley and the Navy that allowed Paisley to keep his security clearance for super-secret ``black'' program information. The consulting arrangement was established shortly before Webb took over as Navy secretary. Webb said he canceled it as soon as he learned of its existence, less than a week after assuming office. ``The arrangement kind of bothered me, the access to black information (for a consultant),'' Webb said.
AP901102-0046 	X	President Bush says a look at history will back up his suggestion that Saddam Hussein is a barbarian surpassing Adolf Hitler, but experts on the Nazi era disagree with him. ``We don't see the kind of atrocities being committed in Kuwait and Iraq that would match those of Nazi Germany,'' said Richard Breitman, a professor of history at American University and a specialist in the Hitler era. ``No one yet, and I hope no one ever will, match up to the systematized brutalities and racist policies that Adolf Hitler committed,'' said Rabbi Abraham Cooper, associate director of the Simon Wiesenthal Center in Los Angeles. The center is devoted to the study of the Nazi Holocaust, in which an estimated 6 million Jews were killed, and its contemporary implications. Bush, speaking at a Republican rally in Mashpee, Mass., Thursday, said Saddam's Iraqi invaders ``have committed outrageous acts of barbarism. Brutality - I don't believe that Adolf Hitler ever participated in anything of that nature.'' Later, at a news conference in Orlando, Fla., Bush said, ``I don't think I am overstating it. I know I am not overstating the feelings I have about it. ... I think the American people are as outraged as I am about the treatment of the people in our embassy, for example, and I think it is important that they know my concerns on this subject.'' ``I was told that Hitler did not stake people out against military targets,'' the president said. ``He did respect the legitimacy of the embassies, so there are some differences.'' He added, ``I see many similarities between the Iraqi behavior in Kuwait and the way the Death's Head regiments behaved in Poland. Go back and take a look at the history and you can see why I'm as concerned as I am.'' '' The Death's Head units were notorious blackshirted SS troops that began as Hitler's personal bodyguard. They were blamed for many atrocities during the German invasion of Poland. Breitman said many of the specific points Bush made were correct and could make Saddam appear worse than Hitler in some respects, ``but I don't think the overall record would show that to be the case.'' He said that at the outbreak of World War II the Nazis interned foreign diplomats in conditions ``that were not comfortable, but were nothing like what we are seeing in Kuwait and Iraq.'' These diplomats were eventually exchanged for German diplomats in Allied custody, Breitman said. He said he was not aware that the Nazis ever took hostages to potential military targets to use them as human shields as Saddam has done. Cooper, however, said Bush was ``absolutely wrong'' on the point. ``Look at the millions of people of all nationalities who were forced into slave labor factories in Germany and many of them got blown away by the Allied bombing missions,'' he said. Breitman said Hitler is not known to have visited any of the Nazi death camps, but ``that does not mean he was not involved.'' He also said the activities of the Death's Head units were ``only the tip of the iceberg in terms of brutality in Poland'' by the German invaders. The historian said he was not defending Saddam. He said the Iraqi leader has committed crimes ``that give the idea of a Nuremberg-type trial a certain legitimacy to raise.'' Administration sources have said that such a trial, along the lines of the war crimes trials held in Nuremberg, Germany, after World War II, is a possibility. At the Wiesenthal Center, Rabbi Cooper said, ``Saddam Hussein has a list of crimes that I don't think has to be compared with anybody in order for the people of America to understand how serious a threat he represents.'' ``But let's also keep this thing in some sort of perspective,'' he said. ``And to say that he outstrips Adolf Hitler, I just think it's either a slip of the tongue or a speech writer got carried away.'' Other Jewish leaders generally agreed. David Harris, executive vice president of the American Jewish Committee, said, ``Both men, each in his own way, represents an incarnation of evil. But to try and suggest that Saddam Hussein is a man of even greater evil than Adolf Hitler to me doesn't add to the discussion.'' Abraham Foxman, national director of the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith, called Bush's remark ``an unfortunate exaggeration that could hurt the president's credibility at a time when it is very important that he remain credible.'' ``Saddam Hussein is writing his own chapter of barbarism,'' Foxman said. ``It's the Saddam Hussein chapter and one need not compare or exaggerate.''
AP901024-0212 	X	It's a tough campaign for president, barbed with Polish humor, between the earthy shipyard worker who founded Solidarity and the somber, laconic intellectual he chose as prime minister. What do Poles think of the contest between Lech Walesa and Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki in their first popular vote for the presidency? Some call it Cham vs. Hamlet. Cham, pronounced ``ham,'' is Polish for bumpkin. Others have asked: Will Mazowiecki declare his candidacy before or after the election? Then there's the story of a problem Walesa had when he wanted to reserve a burial site in Jerusalem next to Jesus Christ. He found the cost was $150,000, it goes, and said to his top aide: ``I don't know, Krzysiek. Is it worth it for only three days?'' The duel between Eastern Europe's first non-Communist head of government and the man who gave him the job has rekindled interest in politics after months of hand-wringing by commentators over post-Communist apathy. Nearly all conversations turn sooner or later to the question of which one will occupy Belweder Palace, seat of Polish presidents. A man was even killed in a drunken dispute with his son-in-law over who would be the better president, the state news agency reported. Poland held parliamentary elections in June 1989 that were largely free and democratic local elections in May, but this is the first real contest because Solidarity candidates swept the earlier votes. Surveys indicate the two former Solidarity allies are running about even. Other candidates have ventured into the ring, including Roman Bartoszcze of the Peasant Party and Wlodzimierz Cimoszewicz of the Social Democrats, formerly the Communists, but only Walesa and Mazowiecki are given a real chance. If neither gets 50 percent of the votes Nov. 25, a runoff will be held Dec. 9. Part of the fascination stems from their contrasting styles. Walesa is electric, speaking rapidly, seeming to bob and weave through questions thrown at him from the crowd. Mazowiecki is ``grey on grey'' in the words of one newspaper, shy and ponderous in speech but exuding character and moral authority. Walesa declared early and began an aggressive campaign immediately with meetings at factories, where he is strong, and with academics, Mazowiecki's turf. In the first three weeks of October, Walesa visited nine cities, saw more than 100,000 people and was seen by millions more on television. Local Solidarity chapters organize his Western-style rallies, held outdoors or in large arenas with banners, brass bands and deafening loudspeakers. Mazowiecki made his first campaign appearance Oct. 14, two weeks after Walesa, in the Krakow Philharmonic Hall, which seats only 800 people. Instead of direct questions from the crowd, he took written ones that were rephrased by his campaign spokesman. The prime minister seems hesitant about contact with strangers. Hundreds of people waited outside the hall in Krakow for two hours and Mazowiecki rewarded them with only a few minutes on the balcony, his stilted words of thanks barely audible through a bullhorn. His dedication to his job, evident in his tired, careworn appearance, earns sympathy even from people who say they will vote for Walesa. After becoming prime minister in August 1989, Mazowiecki set a considered, pragmatic course that won respect abroad and gave Poles a sense of security against the sudden shocks of revolutionary change. To many, however, Mazowiecki's government has seemed to drag its feet, allowing former secret police to destroy records and keeping Communist ministers in the government half a year after the party dissolved. In his campaign, Walesa advocates faster change and has been quoted as intending to use a ``sharp axe'' to chop away vestiges of the old system. He and Mazowiecki also appear to disagree about policy toward the Communist leadership. When he took office, the prime minister spoke of drawing a line between present and past, but Walesa has said he wants to ``settle accounts'' with those who have injured Poland or stolen from it. If Walesa becomes president, Mazowiecki says, he will join the opposition. Walesa replies that he already has five other candidates for prime minister. Critics accuse Walesa of currying favor with the mob, promising easy solutions he cannot deliver and becoming a demagogue who could abuse the still-fragile democracy and frighten off Western investors. ``I'll vote for Mazowiecki because, under his presidency, I can sleep peacefully,'' Adam Michnik, a former Walesa adviser, told a rally. ``If someone knocks at my door at 5 in the morning, it can only be the milkman.'' ``Walesa is as suitable to be president as I am to be a radio announcer,'' Michnik, now editor of Gazeta Wyborcza, Poland's leading daily newspaper, said in a recent broadcast. Michnik spoke with his usual stutter. Walesa wished him luck in radio.
AP880827-0072 	X	American diplomats in Panama are facing a variety of real and potential problems brought on by the Reagan administration's decision to have no dealings with that country's military-dominated government, U.S. officials say. In addition, harassment of American servicemen is on the increase, prompting U.S. military officials to take precautionary measures. Panamanian officials respond that troublemakers among U.S. military personnel pose daily headaches for Panamanian authorities. The State Department's constraints on U.S. envoys are such that they are prohibited from carrying out even simple tasks, such as renewing their license plates or their driver's licenses. As a result, many diplomats have been forced to rent cars rather than run the risk of driving with expired plates. Some make their rounds with expired driver's licenses, worried what local authorities might do if they catch them in a traffic violation or an accident, the officials said. The diplomats lack the documents entitling them to diplomatic immunity. Thus, they are subject to imprisonment if found guilty of a legal infraction. According to U.S. officials, there is concern that agents of Panamanian leader Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega might stage an ``accident'' in which an American diplomat might be subject to prosecution. The diplomats have been in this unusual position since last February, when the Reagan administration refused to recognize the de facto government that took office after the ouster of President Eric Arturo Delvalle. Delvalle was deposed after his abortive attempt to fire Noriega, commander of Panama's Defense Forces. Noriega has been indicted on drug smuggling charges by two Florida grand juries. By withholding recognition from the Noriega-led government which assumed power after Delvalle's ouster, the administration hoped to force its ouster and to lay the groundwork for the restoration of democratic rule. There were confident predictions in Washington six months ago that Noriega soon would be forced to surrender power but, with key elements of the Defense Forces supporting him, he has been able to maintain his position despite widespread popular opposition. Meanwhile, U.S. diplomats and others in Panama have been forced to make difficult adjustments. There have been increased incidents of harassment of American servicemen but U.S. officials do not believe the actions represent deliberate harassment by the Panamanian government. Earlier this week, Panama's Defense Forces issued a statement denying a published report that American servicemen are being singled out for harassment. The statement said U.S. troops cause daily problems for Panamanian authorities, including fights, mistreatment of women, venereal disease, shooting in public places and refusing to pay bar and restaurant tabs. According to U.S. officials, the most serious incident involved the Panamanian wife of an American serviceman. The officials said she was raped by two Panamanians who were wearing Defense Force uniforms. There also have been reports of beatings and abductions of U.S. military personnel. Cynthia Farrell, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Embassy, said American residents of Panama, including businessmen and embassy personnel, have reported no increase in harassment. But an official at the U.S. Southern Command in Panama, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said 240 cases of harassment of U.S. servicemen had been reported between February and August of this year. In response, the Pentagon has been sending some servicemen back to the United States or moving them to safer locations in Panama. The Southern Command official said an increasing number of Panamanian policemen have been attempting to bribe U.S. servicemen stopped for traffic violations. But he noted that the police have not been getting paid regularly because the government has been short of cash since the start of the year. In another example of harassment, the Defense Forces recently refused to allow U.S. military personnel to pick up mail at Panama's international airport for three days, the official said.
AP880408-0009 	X	A jury on Thursday convicted former U.S. Rep. Sam Steiger of theft by extortion for threatening a parole board member to get his vote on a personnel matter while serving in the Evan Mecham administration. ``Any time you go to court you can expect a guilty verdict, but it's difficult to believe,'' Steiger said in the courtroom moments after the jury returned its verdict. Steiger, who was a top aide to the now-ousted Republican governor, was accused of threatening Ron Johnson, a member of the state Board of Pardons and Paroles. Steiger allegedly threatened to withhold permission for Johnson to work as a part-time Tempe justice of the peace and to remove him from the board unless he voted to retain as executive director Patricia Costello, a Mecham appointee. Judge Ronald Reinstein of Maricopa County Superior Court scheduled a May 6 sentencing for the 59-year-old Steiger, who faces up to five years in prison. Asked whether the verdict would be appealed, defense attorney Thomas Karas said, ``We'll take it one step at a time.'' Steiger said, ``That's up to counsel.'' Jury foreman Greg Jones, a fire captain in suburban Mesa, said the deciding factor behind the verdict was ``the tapes of the phone call between Steiger and Johnson.'' Johnson called Steiger at home from the office of the state attorney general, who taped the call. During testimony Monday, Steiger denied that he threatened Johnson or told him how he should vote. But the state alleged that Steiger followed up on the alleged threat in a letter and a telephone conversation after Johnson voted with the board majority to seek Ms. Costello's resignation. The board voted 4-3 that Ms. Costello should step down because of low staff morale. Steiger, a former five-term congressman, testified that he did suggest that Johnson should back Ms. Costello but denied that he tried to ``steal'' Johnson's vote by threatening his job. Karas had asked Reinstein to declare a mistrial, contending the conviction of Mecham at his state Senate impeachment trial Monday might prejudice jurors against Steiger. However, Reinstein ruled that great care had been taken to select unbiased jurors. Steiger gave up his 3rd Congressional District seat in 1976 to run unsuccessfully for the U.S. Senate as a Republican.
AP880503-0281 	X	The New York Stock Exchange is requiring members to submit daily reports of their program trades, a move designed to help the exchange analyze market volatility. Under the new rule, NYSE members and member firms must submit a log of program trades made for customers or for their own accounts, including trades executed in other markets, by the close of the second business day following the trades, the exchange said in a statement Tuesday. Members are not required, however, to identify customers for whom program trades were executed.
AP900115-0150 	X	Egypt's foreign minister left for Washington early Wednesday seeking a way to resolve differences by Israel and the PLO that continue to block Middle East peace talks. The unexpected trip by Foreign Minister Esmat Abdel-Meguid comes after two visits to Cairo in a week by Yasser Arafat, the Palestine Liberation Organization chairman. Abdel-Meguid told reporters at Cairo International Airport he is carrying a message to President Bush from President Hosni Mubarak, who has been trying to start a dialogue between Arafat's organization and Israel. He did not elaborate except to say he would exchange views with U.S. officials on the situation in the Middle East. A Foreign Ministry spokesman said Monday that Abdel-Meguid and other senior officials, including Osama el-Baz, director of Mubarak's political office, ``are going to try and push forward Middle East peace efforts'' with U.S. Secretary of State James A. Baker III. Israel has repeatedly declined to meet with the PLO leadership, saying it is an organization bent on destroying the Jewish homeland.
AP880727-0162 	X	The United States has suspended military and economic talks with Qatar to protest the Persian Gulf sheikdom's unauthorized acquisition of Stinger anti-aircraft missiles, U.S. diplomats said Wednesday. Assistant Secretary of State Richard Murphy said the suspension would remain in place until Qatar returns the missiles to the United States. ``What we have done is to place on hold a number of agreements that were under consideration,'' Murphy told the House subcommittee on Europe and the Middle East. ``We consider it very much in the interests of developing the solid relationship with Qatar that those missiles be returned soonest. And we've made that very clear,'' he added. Murphy himself made an official protest when he visited the Qatari capital of Doha last month. Another official, speaking on condition he not be named, said Qatar had been seeking several military and economic agreements with the United States, including the purchase of weapons. ``We told them everything is frozen,'' he added. ``Relations are now correct but cool.'' The United States does not have any defense cooperation with Qatar but considers the country important as a member of the pro-Western Gulf Cooperation Council which includes Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. U.S. officials wants to get the Stingers back in order to see their serial numbers and determine where Qatar got them. The United States first learned of the Stingers' presence in Qatar last March, when an embassy official saw one of the rockets in television footage of a military parade. U.S. officials say they do not know how many of the shoulder-fired rockets Qatar has. They have speculated that Qatar was given the Stingers by Iran, which in turn captured them from the U.S.-supplied Afghan rebels fighting against the Soviet occupation of their country. Other officials say Qatar may have bought the missiles on the black market, although that possibility is less likely. Strict controls apply to the sale of the Stingers, which are considered of great value to terrorists because they are portable and highly accurate. In response to questioning, Murphy said the United States was not considering recalling its ambassador to Qatar who heads a tiny mission of five Americans. Such a move would not be in the interests of maintaining relations with the pro-Western oil state, Murphy said. The ambassador ``is the only one with access to decision makers'' there, he added. Qatar contends it needs the missiles for self-defense and has rejected any attempts by U.S. officials to even see them.
AP880726-0057 	X	The body of a man found shot four times in the head has been identified as that of a former Texas schoolteacher wanted on kidnapping and drug smuggling charges, police say. Juan Francisco ``Frank'' Garcia, 38, his head wrapped in a gauze bandage and his hands tied behind his back, was found dead in the back seat of an abandoned car shortly after midnight Saturday, said Hernan Guajardo, state judicial police director. Guajardo said the body was identified through fingerprints sent from federal authorities in Texas. The body was found by municipal police in Guadalupe, a suburb of Monterrey. In a news conference Monday, Guajardo described Garcia as a ``person dedicated to narcotics trafficking on a grand scale.'' He said Garcia had been sought in the United States since the early 1980s. Garcia taught elementary history in the Donna Independent School District for two years in the early 1970s. He also taught migrant students in Edinburg, Texas, according to records kept by the Edinburg Daily Review newspaper. Garcia failed to appear in Hidalgo County Court in Edinburg in 1984 on a charge of kidnapping. The case involved the abduction of a South Texas couple taken to Dallas and tortured in an attempt to find more than $500,000 in gold coins Garcia believed had been taken from him, according to the Daily Review. Garcia also is wanted on a federal indictment in Houston in 1985 charging him with involvement in a narcotics smuggling ring. That so-called ``Cash Crop'' indictment alleged that Garcia and 43 other people were involved in smuggling about 250,000 pounds of marijuana from Mexico into the United States.
AP881004-0072 	X	A Philippine Airlines jetliner carrying 303 passengers veered onto the grass from a taxiway today after making a landing at Hong Kong Airport, the government said. It said no one was injured. The Boeing 747 left the taxiway because of a mechanical problem, the government said in a statement. It did not elaborate. The plane landed at 3:08 p.m. after a flight from Manila. The jetliner later was towed away by airport workers, the government statement said. No other details were immediately available.
AP880611-0084 	X	A half dozen geese flew into the engine of a Europe-bound Pan Am jumbo jet Saturday, forcing the pilot to shut it down and return to Kennedy International Airport on the three remaining engines, authorities said. The Boeing 747 landed safely and passengers were transferred to another plane for the flight to London and Frankfurt, Pan Am spokeswoman Pamela Hanlon said. Flight 100 had taken off at 9:56 a.m. with 387 passengers and 16 crew members aboard. While it was still in its takeoff flight pattern, it ran into the flock of geese, the Federal Aviation Administration said. ``As soon as the captain was aware that there was some obstruction of the engine, he shut it down,'' Ms. Hanlon said. ``It's no big deal,'' said Stan Nowak, a Port Authority of New York and New Jersey official. ``A 747 is capable of flying on one engine if it had to.'' He said the plane had to go out over the Atlantic Ocean to dump some fuel before it could return to the airport. ``With a full fuel load, a plane is too heavy to land on its gear. That's the way they are designed. They can take off heavier than they can land,'' Nowak said. The pilot had asked for fire and medical equipment to stand by a precautionary measure but none was needed, Nowak said.
AP900726-0205 	X	The following are the top record hits and leading popular compact disks as they appear in next week's issue of Billboard magazine. Copyright 1990, Billboard Publications, Inc. Reprinted with permission.
AP881110-0200 	X	A federal administrative judge ruled Thursday that stiff landing fees aimed at keeping smaller aircraft out of Boston's Logan Airport violate federal aviation law because they are discriminatory and unfair. A final decision on how to deal with the fee structure imposed last summer by the Massachusetts Port Authority rests with the Transportation Department, to whom administrative law judge Burton S. Kolko made his recommendations. The case has been seen within the aviation industry as a test over how much power the federal government intends to allow local officials and airport operators in dealing with air traffic congestion. A DOT spokesman said the department will decide by Dec. 17 whether to uphold Kolko's decision or come down with an alternative finding on the Boston airport fees, which have raised a storm of protests among private and business pilots and in the commuter airline industry. Kolko in his decision said the Logan fees ``are lacking in economic justification ... not fair and reasonable (and) are unjustly discriminatory'' toward private aircraft and smaller commuter planes. The judge said that Massport officials acted in violation of federal aviation laws and he concluded that the Transportation Department has legal grounds on which to take pre-emptive action to have the fees revoked. Massport officials said that since the fee structure has been in place, Logan has handled more passengers with fewer delays. ``It is unsettling then, that all the benefits ... could be dismantled if DOT accepts the recommendations issued today,'' the company said. The Transportation Department announced last summer that it planned to closely examine the so-called ``Pace Program'' enacted at Logan to curtail the volume of air traffic in and out of the busy Boston airport. After loud protests from private pilots and some commuter airlines, Congress included in its DOT appropriations legislation earlier this year a provision ordering the department to stop airport construction money for Logan if it concludes the fees violate aviation law and are not rescinded. Massport approved the higher landing fees for small aircraft last March, saying Logan's capacity ``is a finite resource, which must be managed wisely and efficiently in order to keep people moving with a minimum of delay.'' The airport's operators said they wanted to use Logan's limited capacity for airliner traffic and not private aircraft, maintaining that a large jetliner with up to 400 people aboard ``deserves a higher priority than a Cessna with two people on board.'' The new fee structure went into effect in July after a U.S. district judge ruled that the fees were not discriminatory. The higher fees have affected both private pilots and commuter airlines. The government said some commuter services were discontinued to Logan after the new fees went into effect, but that most commuters just passed the higher costs on to air travelers. While the conclusion Thursday by Kolko is little more than a recommendation to senior department officials on whether to take administrative action, it was hailed by private pilot groups and other critics of the Logan fees. John Baker, president of the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association, called the law judge's decision ``well reasoned'' and said, ``It makes it clear once and for all this country has a national aviation system that must be regulated by appropriate federal authority.'' Jonathan Howe, head of the National Business Aircraft Association, said his group now ``looks forward to .. the final determination'' on the Massport fees by Deputy Secretary Mimi Dawson next month. ``The entire aviation community was gratified'' by Kolko's findings, said Edward W. Stimpson, president of the General Aviation Manufacturers Association, the trade group that represents builders of small aircraft.
AP881006-0139 	X	A federal judge sharply criticized Iran-Contra prosecutors on Thursday for charging a former CIA station chief in the nation's capital with committing crimes across the Potomac River in Virginia. U.S. District Judge Aubrey E. Robinson Jr. questioned a proposal by independent counsel Lawrence E. Walsh to dismiss all the charges against Joseph F. Fernandez so prosecutors could seek a new indictment from a federal grand jury in nearby Alexandria, Va. ``I don't think it's a simple matter of I'll dismiss it and let you go to Virginia and re-indict it,'' Robinson told Laurence Shtasel, an associate independent counsel. The judge did not indicate how he would rule on Walsh's request, which was made in a response to a defense motion to dismiss four of the indictment's five counts on the ground those alleged offenses occurred at CIA headquarters in Langley, Va. instead of in Washington. Fernandez, who used the pseudonym Tomas Castillo when he was the CIA's station chief in Costa Rica, is accused of conspiring with former National Security Council aide Oliver L. North to illegally ship arms to the Nicaraguan Contra rebels. Robinson said he found no basis for dismissing that count, since the alleged conspiracy took place both in Washington and elsewhere. But the judge sharply questioned the prosecution decision to indict Fernandez, 51, in Washington on four counts of making false statements in Virginia to CIA superiors and to a presidential commission that investigated the Iran-Contra affair. Robinson also lectured the prosecutors about fairness saying: ``There has to be a sense of justice in the process as well as the outcome, otherwise public confidence in the system is destroyed.'' Laurence Shtasel, an associate independent counsel, said prosecutors had not misled the grand jury about the venue _ or location _ of the four alleged crimes, and had advised the panel that Fernandez could waive his right to be tried in Virginia. The grand jury included the four Virginia charges because they were related to the conspiracy, Shtasel said. ``That doesn't give it any right to indict when the venue of the case is not here,'' Robinson said. ``It's the government's responsibility to advise the grand jury what it can or cannot do under the law.'' Defense attorney Thomas E. Wilson argued that Walsh should be barred from bringing the charges anew in Virginia, saying prosecutors ``were trifling with the process.'' ``They intentionally pursued an indictment where they knew there was not even a colorable basis of venue on four of five counts,'' Wilson said. ``The prosecutors in this case are not beleaguered, overworked assistant U.S. attorneys,'' Wilson said. Walsh ``assembled the prosecutorial equivalent of a Roman legion: 29 lawyers, 33 FBI agents, 11 IRS agents, four Customs agents.'' ``They are trifling with the process _ they ought to be stuck with the consequences,'' Wilson said. But Robinson said he ``didn't know any basis for dismissing'' the conspiracy charge against Fernandez. ``The nub of the case is the conspiracy indictment, any way you look at it, everything else is superfluous really,'' the judge told Shtasel. But he said allowing Walsh to try Fernandez in Washington on the conspiracy count and obtain another indictment in Virginia ``places an intolerable burden on a single defendant.''
AP901123-0078 	X	A ``human bomb'' attack, similar to last month's IRA bombing which killed seven people, failed when the enormous bomb fizzled, police said Friday. No one immediately claimed responsibility for Thursday night's failed attack but a spokesman for the Royal Ulster Constabular said the Irish Republican Army was suspected. The RUC spokesman said armed, masked men kidnapped a man from his home near Newtown Butler and ordered him to drive a truck containing a 3,500-pound bomb to an army checkpoint at Annaghmartin. The gang tied up the man's elderly parents and locked them in a bathroom while the man was driven near the checkpoint, 56 miles southwest of Belfast. The man was told to deliver the bomb, which they said had a five-minute timer, police said. The man drove the red pickup to the checkpoint, jumped out and shouted a warning. A short time later there was a small explosion, which was believed to have been caused by the detonator going off, police said. Army bomb experts defused the bomb, one of the largest ever found in Northern Ireland, police said. The army said there was only minimal damage and no one was injured. On Oct. 24, the IRA staged three human bomb attacks which killed six soldiers and a civilian, who drove one of the bombs to the army targets. The IRA is fighting British rule in Northern Ireland. It wants to unite the predominantly Protestant province with the 95 percent Catholic Republic of Ireland, under socialist rule.
AP880229-0011 	X	Actor Sean Penn says being married to a star like Madonna is a strain, but that recent reports the couple was close to divorce were created by the press. Penn discussed his marriage in a story published in Sunday's Chicago Tribune, which said it was the first interview with filmdom's bad boy since he was jailed for 32 days after striking a movie extra. Penn, 27, vowed to ``refocus'' himself to avoid outbursts. He said reports of his marital problems with Madonna, 29, stem from her fans' possessiveness of her and their view of him as less-than-ideal marriage material. ``She belonged to them, to the public,'' Penn said. ``And if anybody took her, I think they thought it should have been someone more acceptable, like Donald Trump.'' Madonna filed divorce papers in Santa Monica, Calif., on Dec. 4, citing irreconcilable differences. Two weeks later, she asked to withdraw the petition and the court granted the request the same day, court records show. No reason was given in the court papers for her change of heart. But Penn said the divorce story ``was more People magazine than reality. My attitude with the press right now is that I hope they've had their share of me. They've been very busy trying to find or make dirt. I'd like to get back to acting.''
AP900213-0196 	X	For almost half a century, being prepared for World War III has been the military's mission and a piston driving the American economy. Moscow and Washington, East and West, stood toe-to-toe along the Iron Curtain. It took a million soldiers, 12,000 strategic nuclear warheads and a growing defense budget to keep the peace in Europe. Inside a year, the world changed. ``For eons we've been saying, `The Russians are coming, the Russians are coming,''' says Rep. Ronald Dellums, D-Calif. ``Well they haven't come, and they aren't coming.'' Defense Secretary Richard Cheney told Congress: ``We are now on the verge of winning one of the greatest victories in the history of the world without a shot ever being fired.'' Three arms treaties are being negotiated for the signatures of Presidents Bush and Mikhail S. Gorbachev. Once they are settled _ reducing the stockpiles of chemical weapons, conventional forces in Europe and long-range nuclear missiles _ the American military will be transformed in size and purpose. Yet with the outbreak of peace, as Gov. Richard Celeste of Ohio notes, ``there can be a dark side.'' Peace is not a completely comforting prospect for everyone: _Not for the 1,600 people who work in St. Louis at the Army Troop Support Command, distributor of uniforms, tents and other military supplies. The Pentagon wants to close it. _Not for the 101,000 who work for General Dynamics Corp., maker of tanks, submarines, jets and missiles in plants from Florida to California. The No. 2 defense contractor has become a symbol of the end-of-the-Cold War malady. Public relations executive Chris Schildz discourages reporters seeking interviews on how the company is going to handle it. _Not for thousands upon thousands of GIs who now must confront something that American soldiers don't usually worry about _ job security. Today's troops aren't draftees like those let go after World War II or the Korean War or Vietnam. They are volunteers. Many chose the service as a career. Demobilization, for them, is as rude a slap as a layoff for a factory worker. ``We are very well aware of the fact that this is the first time the United States of America has ever taken apart an army made up of all volunteers,'' says Lt. Gen. Gordon R. Sullivan, the Army's deputy chief of staff for operations and plans. He says it's too early to estimate how many soldiers will be let go. _Not for the 13,000 people in and around Lima, Ohio, who owe their jobs to the Army Tank Plant. It makes the M-1 Abrams tank, a 60-ton monster deemed too muscular for the lighter, more mobile Army the Pentagon envisions for the 1990s. The plant is scheduled to close in 1993. Don Downhour, a Lima resident who doesn't work at the plant, says he's sympathetic to the plight of the tank builders, but he sees another side. ``We don't need tanks if we're going to have peace,'' he muses. ``And that's what we've been praying for.'' Harry O'Brien, shop steward at the Saco Defense plant in Saco, Maine, whose mainstay is the Mk-19 grenade launcher, says his co-workers are worried by the defense cutbacks. ``Everybody is saying, `Gee, what happens if we get closed down?','' he says The diminishing of the 45-year-old threat of global war between the two superpowers is worrisome in other places, too: _In President Bush's White House. No sooner had Bush submitted his budget to Congress, calling for a slight drop in Pentagon spending next year, than he took to the road to sell Americans on a single idea: Cutting back too fast, too far is dangerous folly. _At the Pentagon, where Cheney has been carrying the Bush message to Capitol Hill. He is a man in the middle _ knowing reductions will be forced by Congress, but needing to protect Bush's cautious approach and the strategic concerns of the armed forces. _In Congress, where claimants for the ``peace dividend'' _ those who want to retire some national debt; or cut Social Security taxes; or address the problems of the homeless and ill-housed, hungry and poor; or repair decaying bridges, roads and sewage systems; or fix America's education system; or ease the medical-cost burden of the elderly _ are lining up for a piece of the pie. A pie that Bush says doesn't exist. _And again in Congress, where some foresee severe economic upheavals if defense plants and bases close suddenly and thousands of workers are left in the cold. The trouble, then, is figuring out just how much defense to drop, and where. If the Cold War is over, what is the justification for spending 25 cents of every federal dollar on defense _ half of which goes to deterring a Soviet invasion of Europe now deemed less likely than a blue moon? From the fall of the Berlin Wall in November to the Soviet Communist Party's historic decision Feb. 7 to give up its power monopoly, events in the East bloc have eroded the very underpinnings of Western strategic thinking. Indeed, the East European states no longer are a ``bloc'' in the traditional sense. In this new world order, what will the United States do with its military might? Fight terrorists? Play ``policeman'' in Third World hot spots? Revert to the isolationism so dreaded by U.S. allies in Europe and Asia? One answer may be in joining the Bush administration's war on drugs, and the president is pressing for more money to use Marines and other military resources to help keep drugs out of the country. For years the Pentagon fought the idea, arguing it would sap readiness to fight conventional wars and involve soldiers in police work, customarily a civilian concern. Those misgivings seem to have diminished. The exact features of the military transformation are not yet clear, but some signs are visible. U.S. troop strength is being cut, bases closed, weapon programs illed and security threats reassessed. Less clear is what these changes will mean for individual soldiers and their families, for communities and companies that depend on a thriving military-industrial complex, and for a NATO alliance facing possible disintegration. Bush says he hopes attrition will reduce the ranks of the military so that relatively few soldiers will have to be discharged. ``I would like to think that a kid that went in to make a career out of this would not be unceremoniously dumped from the armed services,'' he told reporters recently. As Pentagon planners redefine the military's mission, politicians are rushing to reset the nation's spending priorities. They see a new hope for social programs that took second place to the 1980s military buildup. Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., has proposed carving out a $169 billion ``peace dividend'' over the next five years _ more than quadruple the savings proposed by Bush in the same period. Rep. Richard Gephardt, D-Mo., accuses Bush of ``beating plowshares into swords.''
AP901004-0004 	X	The sale of $7.3 billion in new weaponry to Saudi Arabia is just one step in creating a Persian Gulf ``coalition defense'' against the long-term threat posed by Iraq, say two senior Bush administration officials. That sale will be followed by more sales next year to the Saudis, perhaps to their neighbors Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates, and new military help for Israel, Undersecretary of Defense Paul Wolfowitz and Undersecretary of State Reginald Bartholomew told Congress on Wednesday. In doing so, the United States hopes ``to build a Saudi and a gulf force capability that will, in effect, drive up significantly the costs to anybody looking to take a whack at them,'' Bartholomew said. ``We do not want to leave the road to Bahrain open, as it was on the second of August,'' the day Iraq invaded Kuwait, he told a hearing of two House Foreign Affairs subcommittees. President Bush has asked Congress for permission to sell $7.3 billion worth of weapons, including tanks, attack helicopters and anti-missile defenses, to Saudi Arabia. The two officials said the weapons would help the Saudis present a more credible deterrent to aggression from Iraq or elsewhere, and would permit them if attacked to resist long enough to allow reinforcements from friendly countries to arrive. They noted that past U.S. military sales to the Saudis, some $50 billion over the past four decades, helped build many of the facilities that now are supporting Operation Desert Shield, the American-led international troop deployment in that country. ``Some have said that once Desert Shield is over Iraq will no longer be a threat because the U.S. and allied forces will have destroyed the Iraqi military,'' Wolfowitz said. ``We cannot count on that. ... No outcome is likely to permanently eliminate Iraq as a regional power.'' U.S. strategy is based on a principle of ``coalition defense,'' Wolfowitz said. He said that includes strengthening the ability of gulf nations to defend themselves, encouraging defense cooperation among countries in the region and making it easier for them to receive reinforcements from allies. The sale of 150 advanced M1A2 tanks is particularly important, Wolfowitz said, noting that U.S. strategists were particularly afraid of Iraqi tanks in the early days of the military deployment. ``We had severe concerns about the ability of Iraqi armor to penetrate rather quickly,'' he said. ``We didn't have anything on the ground to stop Iraqi tanks. We don't want to ever be in the position of saying that again.'' The officials asked that Congress quickly approve the newest sale to Saudi Arabia. They said additional sales to Riyadh, as well as to the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain, would be proposed early next year. Next year's Saudi package will include F-15 fighter planes, additional Patriot anti-missile batteries and more tanks and anti-armor weapons, Bartholomew said. The administration also is considering requests from Bahrain for Apache attack helicopters and multiple-launch rocket systems, and from the United Arab Emirates for Apaches, he said. Responding to concerns from supporters of Israel, Wolfowitz noted the administration is prepared to quickly transfer two Patriot batteries from current U.S. stocks and is looking at additional ways to aid Israel militarily. Asked by Rep. Lee Hamilton, D-Ind., whether it is U.S. policy to retaliate against Iraq immediately if it attacks Israel, Bartholomew said: ``I don't have any reason to open that up to question.'' Rep. Tom Lantos, D-Calif., raised the possibility that weapons sold to Saudi Arabia could fall into enemy hands if its current government ever falls, and cited similar past occurrences in Iran and Kuwait. Bartholomew acknowledged that some U.S. weapons that had been sold to Kuwait now are in the hands of Iraqi forces, including a number of improved Hawk antiaircraft missiles, TOW anti-tank missiles, self-propelled 155-millimeter howitzers and ammunition, and about 16 A-4 attack aircraft.
AP881114-0059 	X	Opposition parties today demanded an inquiry into why the state-run television company helped finance an anti-communist film on which President P.W. Botha's daughter was production coordinator. The film, ``Back To Freedom,'' opened in South Africa last week and has been panned by critics as an amateurish propaganda exercise. The far-right Conservative Party called for appointment of a commission to investigate the South African Broadcasting Corp.'s involvement in the production. Parliament member Dave Dalling, spokesman for the liberal Progressive Federal Party, said the film company involved was owned by a friend of President Botha's. Dalling asked who authorized the SABC to provide more than $1 million to finance the film. Botha's daughter, Rozanne, was production coordinator of the film, but in the credits her last name is given as ``Both'' instead of Botha. The film's scriptwriter, a university professor, also used a pseudonym. The controversy over the film was sparked by reports in Sunday newspapers that the Cabinet minister formerly in charge of the SABC, Alvyn Schlebusch, had recommended the corporation withhold the final installment of its payment to Mimosa Films, more than $200,000, because the film was substandard. According to the reports, President Botha overruled Schlebusch and ordered the payment be made. Schlebusch subsequently resigned. The Cabinet minister who now oversees the SABC, Stoffel van der Merve, said the broadcasting company's involvement in the film was legitimate. The SABC, in return for its financing, was to get all profits from domestic box-office receipts and half of overseas profits. The movie plot is based loosely on the current civil war in Angola, in which South African-backed rebels are fighting the Soviet- and Cuban-supported troops of Angola's Marxist government. South African military equipment was used in the film, and dozens of soldiers reportedly served as extras. The Sunday Times newspaper said the script was believed to have been submitted to Angolan rebel leader Jonas Savimbi for approval.
AP900907-0057 	X	President F.W. de Klerk will meet President Bush on Sept. 24 in the first U.S. visit by a South African leader in decades, a government official said today. De Klerk, who has launched wide-ranging reforms since assuming power a year ago, was scheduled to meet Bush in June. But the visit was canceled after anti-apartheid groups in the United States protested, saying Bush should first hold talks with African National Congress leader Nelson Mandela. Mandela, who saw Bush in June, said it did not matter who met first with the U.S. president. Mandela has said his movement has no objections to a Bush-de Klerk meeting, but wants to United States to maintain its limited economic sanctions against South Africa to protest apartheid. A South African government source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said an official announcement of de Klerk's visit would be made this afternoon. No South African leader has visited the United States since the apartheid system of racial segregation was formally implemented in the late 1940s, officials said. De Klerk says he wants to end apartheid and negotiate a new constitution with opposition groups that would allow whites and blacks to share power. Under apartheid, the 5 million whites dominate politics and the economy and the 30 million blacks have no voice in national affairs.
AP900421-0130 	X	An elderly woman drowned in flood waters, and 30,000 people in Outback areas remained isolated as heavy rain continued across much of eastern Australia, police said Saturday. Ngari Roberts, 64, drowned at Mudgee in central west New South Wales state when her motorcycle was swept downstream as she tried to cross a swollen creek. Her body was discovered late Friday by her husband. The town of Charleville, in western Queensland state, was underwater and officials said an estimated 4,000 people, many waiting on the roofs of the flooded homes, would have to be removed by helicopter and boat. Queensland state premier Wayne Goss declared the central and western areas of his state a disater area and promised financial aid for victinms of the flooding, caused by three weeks of heavy rain. Meteorologists said the rain was the heaviest in 40 years in the region, which is normally dry and dusty. Dozens of small communities remained cut off as the Royal Australian Air Force continued to drop food and supplies to isolated rural towns. A number of usually placid rivers were overflowing, killing thousands of sheep and cattle. Residents of the New South Wales town of Nyngan worked through the night to sandbag the banks of the Bogan River and prevent it from flooding the town center. Some of the 90 passengers in a train surrounded by flood waters near the town of Longreach were evacuated Friday and other passengers were to be airlifted Saturday.
AP880623-0272 	X	Share prices on the London Stock Exchange were little changed Thursday amid some profit-taking and uncertainty over the market's direction. The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index was off 0.4 point, or 0.02 percent, at 1,878.9. Trading volume was 558.9 million shares, compared with 521.6 million shares Wednesday. Analysts said the market appeared to be consolidating the advances of the previous two sessions, when the key index climbed 35 points. ``People are starting to question whether the rise to 1,900 is sustainable,'' one trader said. Roger Charlesworth, senior dealer at Chase Manhattan Securities in London, said the market was having a delayed reaction to Wednesday's news of a half-point rise in the British commercial banks' base lending rate to 9 percent. Higher rates, he said, ``might be quite bearish because it's not to wring inflationary pressure from the economy but rather to stabilize the currency.'' News that Rowntree PLC had decided to accept Nestle S.A.'s sweetenend takeover offer of 2.55 billion pounds, or about $4.5 billion, continued to support selected issues in an otherwise declining market, dealers said.
AP900221-0223 	X	After Vic Monia headed a campaign that helped persuade local voters to limit developments on surrounding hillsides, he immediately had to fend off a $40 million defamation suit filed by a developer. Citizens who crusade against local polluters or new developments are increasingly likely to be hit with such suits, called ``SLAPPs,'' or Strategic Lawsuits Against Public Participation, two University of Denver professors say. They say the suits are unconstitutional and discourage citizen participation. Some SLAPP targets, however, are SLAPPing back, with notable success. The suit against Monia, a computer engineer in Saratoga, Calif., never made it to court. Last year, nine years after it was filed, he won $200,000 in a countersuit when a jury ruled he was the victim of malicious prosecution. But the developer's SLAPP against Monia and his environmental and homeowners group had an effect. Intimidated city council members exempted the developer from some new restrictions and many local homeowners' groups disbanded, Monia said. ``I saw the impact of the lawsuit in the community: a lot less participation,'' he said. ``People were talking about: `You've got to be careful. You speak out, someone's gonna sue you.' ``I got so preoccupied,'' he said. ``I ended up leaving my job. I thought about moving out of the state. My daughters at the time were quite young, we'd just moved into a new home, the payments were pretty good-sized. And my wife said, `Are you sure you haven't risked everything we've worked for?' It really began to weigh very heavily on me.'' Now, he said, he'd think twice before participating in local politics. Monia's is one of hundreds of cases tracked by law professor George Pring and sociology professor Penelope Canan as part of a 2{-year study financed by the National Science Foundation. Pring and Canan say there are thousands more and the numbers have been growing since the 1970s, with the greatest concentration in areas with a high quality of life and a large number of educated newcomers, particularly California, New York and Colorado. Among the SLAPPs they studied: _A Louisville, Colo., woman circulated petitions opposing plans for a housing development on nearby farmland and was sued by the developer. _A Sutton, W.Va., blueberry farmer told federal authorities that operators of a nearby coal mine had polluted a river and killed fish in it. He was hit with a $200,000 libel lawsuit. _A group of citizens in Washington and Warren counties in New York went to court to block a planned trash incinerator and were countersued by the counties for $1.5 million. _The League of Women Voters in Beverly Hills, Calif., supported a ballot initiative to stop a condominium project and wrote two letters to a local newspaper criticizing it. The developer sued the league for $63 million. SLAPPs aren't meant to be won _ they're meant to intimidate, the professors concluded. They usually don't even get to court, and once there, more than 90 percent of the plaintiffs lose, Pring said. By that time, though, the citizen opposition often is scared off or into compromise, the professors said. The average SLAPP seeks $9 million in damages and takes 36 months to resolve. ``Hundreds of people we've talked to are literally terrified at the thought of losing their homes under multimillion-dollar lawsuits,'' Pring said. The suits also dissuade people who merely hear about them from participating in politics, he said. State authorities are starting to act. A legislative proposal in New York, for example, would require developers to prove actual malice on the part of citizen opponents before they could file SLAPPs, said Nancy Stearns of th New York Attorney General's Environmental Protection Bureau. ``It's troublesome,'' Stearns said. ``Particularly in the environmental arena, citizen participation is really key. The law relies on the involvement of citizens in the environmental process. It's not just exercising rights, but being a responsible citizen.'' She said the increase in SLAPPs in the last 10 to 15 years could be due to rising citizen concern about the environment. Pring and Canan said it also could be the result of a generally more litigious society, noting that many SLAPPs are unrelated to the environment but instead are filed by local or school officials against citizens or parents. In a recent case in suburban Denver, for example, a teacher accused by fundamentalist Christian parents of teaching witchcraft sued the parents for slander. Police officers have sued citizens who complained about their behavior, and elected officials have claimed defamation when citizens called for their jobs, the professors say. ``The right to tell our elected government representatives what we think and what we want them to do for us is the most basic right we have,'' said Pring. ``What is more basic than parents going to school with complaints about their children's education?'' Monia said he stewed about the ``injustice'' of the suit filed against him for almost a year after it was dismissed before deciding to sue the developer and the developer's attorney. In addition to the $200,000 jury award from the developer last year, Monia won an out-of-court settlement with the attorney. In a more prominent California case last year, a group of Kern County farmers who successfully fought off a SLAPP by agribusiness giant J.G. Boswell Co. in a water dispute countersued and won a $13.5 million judgment against Boswell for infringing on their constitutional rights. The court ruled Boswell filed the libel suit in 1982 to intimidate the farmers so they would not support a state proposition. ``Unlike SLAPPs, many SLAPP-backs are succeeding,'' said Pring, who testified on the farmers' behalf. ``It used to be filers could file these cases with impunity. ... Now I have to counsel would-be filers and their attorneys they may be walking themselves into a multimillion-dollar action.'' Still, he said, the farmers told him they would never again participate in politics. Monia, who said he was lucky enough to be able to weather nine years of legal bills, hopes his victory encourages others. ``And I hope that they can feel that if they go after individuals or companies who misuse the judicial system for political purposes, that they can win,'' he said.
AP900111-0142 	X	The PLO on Thursday accused fighters of a pro-Iranian militia of killing a Palestinian guerrilla and wounding three others deployed to quell battles between Shiite Moslem militias in south Lebanon. The fundamentalist Hezbollah, or Party of God, issued a statement in Beirut denying the PLO charge and said its fighters ``did not fire a single shot on Palestinian positions.'' But a Sunni Moslem cleric, Sheik Maher Hammoud, who maintains close ties with Hezbollah, said fundamentalist fighters fired at the Palestinians on the strategic Hamade hill, which overlooks the forward lines of Hezbollah and its rival militia, the Syrian-backed Amal. The militias have been fighting intermittently since May 1987 for dominance of Lebanon's 1.2 million Shiites. The latest battles have been waged on the fringes of PLO strongholds, in south Lebanon's Iqlim al-Tuffah, or apple province. About 700 members of Yasser Arafat's Fatah movement were deployed last week to try to disengage the warring factions, and no major clashes have occurred since Monday between the militias. The PLO claimed Hezbollah gunners opened fire on a PLO disengagement force Wednesday, killing one guerrilla and wounding three. The commander of the Fatah force, identified only as Col. Abu Fadi, said the guerrillas ``will be forced to return fire to defend ourselves'' if Hezbollah fires on them again. A police spokesman, who cannot be named under standing regulations, said Hezbollah believes the PLO intervention has helped Amal and stopped Hezbollah from taking the entire region. Police could not confirm the Palestinian casualties. They said the bodies of two slain Hezbollah fighters were found early Thursday in Iqlim al-Tuffah. The police spokesman said the two men were apparently slaughtered by Amal militiamen after being taken captive. Police said one Hezbollah gunman was also killed and two Amal militiamen were wounded in a brief shootout in the village of Arki, six miles southwest from the main area of fighting. The casualties, excluding the Palestinians, upped the overall toll to 97 dead and 277 wounded since the current round of clashes broke out Dec. 23. Fatah's political chief in the southern city of Sidon, Zeid Wehbe, refused a Hezbollah appeal for the withdrawal of Arafat's men from Iqlim al-Tuffah. ``We are not an occupying force to be asked to withdraw,'' Wehbe said in a statement published in several Beirut newspapers. ``We are a disengagement force. When fighting is over and its consequences are solved, we will return to our previous bases,'' he was quoted as saying by the independent An-Nahar daily. Iran's deputy foreign minister, Mohammad Ali Besharati, who is in Beirut trying to enforce a cease-fire, has warned of the dangers of the Palestinians' expansion in Iqlim al-Tuffah and called on them to withdraw promptly to their nearby refugee camps. But sources from both Shiite factions spoke of a deadlock. In public statements, Amal chieftain Nabih Berri insists on an unconditional withdrawal of Hezbollah from all territories it conquered during the latest round of fighting. Hezbollah has offered a gradual withdrawal, coinciding with negotiations on finding a way for both militias to exist in the region. There was sporadic sniper fire interspersed with blasts from rocket-propelled grenades Thursday, but no casualties were reported.
AP901021-0057 	X	Rain was scattered across the South on Sunday, and rain and high wind lashed the Pacific Northwest. Showers and thunderstorms associated with a slowly moving cold front were over Arkansas, Louisiana, and eastern and south-central sections of Texas during the afternoon, with some locally heavy rain. Showers and thunderstorms also produced locally heavy rain over northern and central Florida. Heavier rainfall totals for the six hours up to 2 p.m. EDT included 2.31 inches at Shreveport, La.; 1.70 inches at Mayport, Fla.; 1.37 at Fort Polk, La.; 1.33 at Pine Bluff, Ark.; 1.24 inches at Daytona Beach, Fla.; 1.11 inches at San Antonio, Texas; and 1.10 at Alexandria, La. Killeen, Texas, got 2.99 inches of rain during the 12-hour period up to 2 p.m. EDT. A cold front crossing the northern Pacific Coast region carried rain and high wind to parts of Washington and Oregon. Quillayute, Wash., got 1.49 inches in six hours during the night. Showers were scattered from eastern Washington state into the northern Rocky Mountains. Strong southwesterly wind blew over the northern high Plains, with a gust to 66 mph during the morning at Livingston, Mont. Blustery northwesterly wind carried cold air into Oklahoma and Texas during the afternoon. Temperatures in the 70s extended as far north as the Carolinas and southern sections of the Ohio Valley. But clouds and northwesterly wind kept afternoon temperatures in the 30s and 40s across the northern half of the Mississippi Valley, and afternoon readings were mostly in the 40s from the Dakotas to the northern and central high Plains. Temperatures were in the 40s and 50s across much of the West, and in the 80s in the desert Southwest. Overnight temperatures dipped into the teens and 20s in the Great Basin that includes Nevada and western Utah, and in the Rockies. Readings dipped below freezing during the night across upstate New York and northern New England, over the Texas Panhandle and Oklahoma Panhandle, and from the northern and central high Plains to Minnesota. Wheat Ridge, Colo., tied its record low for the date of 23. Sunday's low for the Lower 48 states was 3 above zero at Gunnison, Colo.
AP900529-0143 	X	Special interests paid nearly $600,000 last year for speeches by a half-dozen top leaders in the House. Rep. Dan Rostenkowski, chairman of the tax-writing committee, took in the most with $285,000, according to financial disclosure reports made public Tuesday. Rank-and-file members shared in the speechmaking windfall to supplement their $89,500 salaries. All told, House members accepted millions of dollars for speaking and writing, and many got more for talking than the average family earns in a year. The flow of speaking fees, mostly from special interests that ranged from colleges to banks, was hardly slowed by the allegations of financial improprieties that led last year to the resignations of Speaker Jim Wright, D-Texas, and Rep. Tony Coelho, D-Calif., the majority whip. Wright's successor, Speaker Thomas S. Foley, D-Wash., reported he received $32,000 in honoraria. Coelho's successor, Rep. William Gray, D-Pa., claimed $164,098. Foley's successor as majority leader, Rep. Richard Gephardt, D-Mo., reported $34,500. Rep. Patricia Schroeder, D-Colo., was the top talk-for-pay lawmaker outside the leadership, with $160,517. House members are allowed to keep honoraria equivalent to 30 percent of their salaries and most give what is left to charity. Rostenkowski traditionally spreads the excess among churches and schools in his hometown of Chicago. Republican Whip Newt Gingrich of Georgia handed over $29,304 of his $67,491 in fees to the Atlanta zoo. The disclosure statements of most House members were made public Tuesday, although some lawmakers were granted extensions. Senators' reports will be released Wednesday. Speaking and writing fees were not the only source of outside income for members of the House, which has dozens of millionaires. One of the wealthiest, Rep. Amory Houghton, R-N.Y., an heir to the Corning Glass Works fortune, received $127,000 last year for managing family trusts. Rep. Don Sundquist, R-Tenn., listed dividends of $5,000 to $15,000 from his stake in a popular barbecue restaurant, Red, Hot `n Blue, in Arlington, Va. Rep. Ronald Machtley, R-R.I., earned interest by lending money to his own campaign committee. Rep. Dante Fascell, D-Fla., who heads the Foreign Affairs Committee, pocketed a $24,000 salary from his law firm, $11,913 in Social Security benefits and as much as $15,000 from his stake in a thoroughbred horse breeding operation. Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., who is under investigation by the House ethics committee because of his association with a male prostitute, was paid between $15,000 and $50,000 as an advance on a book he is writing. Rep. Ben Jones, D-Ga., an actor who played on the old ``Dukes of Hazzard'' show, received a $10,625 advance for his autobiography. Another ex-actor, Rep. Fred Grandy, R-Iowa, earned $26,219 in royalties from his tour on the ``Love Boat'' series. Rep. J. Howard Coble, R-N.C., won $600 in a congressional pinball tournament and donated it to charities in his district. Rep. Curtis Weldon, R-Pa., who once helped extinguish a fire in a House office building, was reimbursed for expenses of 19 speaking trips to fire-fighting organizations in 16 states last year. He received no fees for those speeches. Weldon is a founder of the congressional fire-prevention caucus. Rep. Chester Atkins, D-Mass., earned $17,307 as chairman of the Massachusetts State Democratic Committee. Rep. Stan Parris, R-Va., sold a 1948 Chrysler roadster for something between $15,000 and $50,000. Rep. Ben Nighthorse Campbell, D-Colo., earned nearly $14,000 designing Indian jewelry. Rep. Herbert Callahan, D-Ala., was paid $12,000 in director's fees from the Finch Companies. Although Democrats, who control the House, were paid the most for their speechmaking, Republicans shared in the wealth. Republican Leader Robert Michel of Illinois reported $49,300. Rep. Jerry Lewis of California, who heads the House Republican Conference, was paid $31,000. As part of a bill raising their government salaries, House members agreed that 1990 will be the last year they will receive honoraria. Senators will allow themselves lower government salaries than House members after this year but will keep their speaking fees. In addition to their speaking fees and other honoraria, members of Congress and most other federal officials are required to disclose their assets, not including their homes; their investments, most liabilities and gifts. The forms require that values be listed only by broad category. For example, a multimillion-dollar holding is reported only as worth more than $250,000. Some members are more precise. Rep. William Natcher, D-Ky., whose seniority and Appropriations Committee position make him one of the most powerful House members, listed no speaking fees, no gifts, no liabilities, no investment transactions and no membership in any organization. He listed nine properties valued at $144,978 from which he collected $4,200 in rent, and the $4,131 savings account that earned $212 interest. Not all are so lucky in their finances. Rep. Tommy F. Robinson, R-Ark., who switched parties last year, listed among his liabilities more than $250,000 he owes Jerral W. Jones, owner of the Dallas Cowboys. Jones' daughter left a $60,000-a-year job on Robinson's staff last year after the congressman and Jones had a falling out over Robinson's plans to run for governor. Rep. Doug Barnard, D-Ga., reported assets of between zero and $5,000 with no liabilities. On the other hand, Gephardt, who sold rental homes in Missouri last year, had no liabilities but assets of as much as $915,000. Rep. William Green, R-N.Y., an heir to the Grand Union food stores, reported one of the highest 1989 incomes among House members, at least $507,857 and perhaps as much as $1.26 million. His campaign committee returned to him between $100,000 and $250,000 of personal funds he had invested in his 1984 re-election effort.
AP880827-0095 	X	The mayor handed out a harsh etiquette lesson to city workers after he read a newspaper column describing a telephone caller's rude treatment. ``I was livid. I was very frustrated,'' Mayor Joseph R. Paolino Jr. said Friday. ``That's just the kind of action I've been trying to ferret out of City Hall.'' Paolino delivered a tongue-lashing in person to the Department of Inspection and Standards Thursday after reading the columnist's account of her attempt to get a zoning question answered. The mayor also transferred one employee suspected of rudeness to a job where he will not have to field incoming calls. The columnist, Gayle Gertler of The Providence Journal, wrote that two city divisions referred her back and forth and one worker responded to her questions by saying, ``You're not listening, dear.''
AP900724-0129 	X	The Senate will vote Wednesday on a resolution denouncing Sen. Dave Durenberger for financial misconduct. Only Durenberger and, perhaps, fellow Minnesota Republican Rudy Boschwitz are expected not to vote for the resolution. Durenberger's press secretary, Lois West, said the senator would vote ``present.'' Boschwitz's press secretary, Tim Droogsma, said his boss may vote the same way. West said Durenberger had ruled out a challenge to the resolution, which she said the rest of Durenberger's colleagues are expected to approve. ``There have been senators who said they would support him in whatever he wanted them to do,'' West said. ``Durenberger, if asked, has been saying that he would just as soon they accept it _ as he has done.'' The Senate Ethics Committee recommended last week that the full chamber denounce Durenberger for ``unequivocally unethical'' conduct in connection with a book-promotion scheme and Senate payments on his Minneapolis condominium. Durenberger will be required to make up to $123,000 in restitution to the Senate. He had appealed to the committee for a lighter penalty, saying denouncement was ``much too onerous.'' ``Once the decision was made, he said he wasn't going to challenge it. It was appropriate to argue (the penalty) in advance,'' West said. Boschwitz was considering voting against the resolution until he talked to Durenberger and learned he would not challenge the sanction, Droogsma said. Boschwitz believes Durenberger has already been punished by the length of the 22-month-old ethics investigation and the $500,000 in legal fees he has incurred, Droogsma said.
AP900526-0002 	X	Colombian journalists who have risked their lives to cover the drug trade are being honored by Harvard University's Nieman Foundation. The 1990 Louis M. Lyons Award for Conscience and Integrity in Journalism has been awarded to Colombian reporters, both living and dead, who have covered the drug industry and its effect on that country, the foundation announced Friday. Luis Gabriel Cano, 67, president of El Espectador, a Bogota newspaper, will accept the award this fall. El Espectador has lost many of its staff to death or exile and had its newsroom bombed by narco-terrorists last September. The Committee to Protect Journalists, a New York-based human rights group, has documented the killing of 20 reporters and editors in Colombia by agents of drug lords in the last five years. However, Cano and other Colombian journalists estimate that 50 news organization employees, including business employees, have been killed, the foundation said. Among those murdered was Cano's brother, Guillermo Cano, El Espectador editor-in-chief and a columnist. ``Mr. Cano has lost his brother and several of his associates to the narco-mafia assassins, and recently suffered a major bombing to the paper's installations which caused $2.5 million in damages, seriously jeopardizing the paper,'' T. Roberto Eisenmann Jr., editor of La Prensa in Panama and a former Nieman fellow, wrote in nominating Cano for the award. ``Yet Cano struggled on, realizing that if his newspaper fails in its efforts, his country's institutions might crumble, giving way to narco-mafia dominance. His courage is especially inspiring for our profession.'' A committee of the 21 members of the Nieman Fellow Class of 1990 chose the Colombians for the award, which is named in honor of former Nieman curator Louis M. Lyons. The award carried an honorarium of $1,000. Cano will travel to Cambridge to accept the award on behalf of his Colombian colleagues.
AP900726-0067 	X	President Mikhail S. Gorbachev said today his country needs Western assistance to make his reform program work, and he promised that any aid will be repaid. Gorbachev spoke at a news conference after a day of meetings with Italian Premier Giulio Andreotti, the president of the European Community. Andreotti is a leading proponent of providing aid to the Soviet Union. No agreements were reached in the talks about Italian or European aid to boost Gorbachev's reform program. Gorbachev said the Soviet Union needs help producing more food and consumer goods for the market, and that factories need a chance to work with foreign firms to boost their productivity. As an example of Soviet inefficiency, Gorbachev has said 25 percent of the nation's crops are lost during harvesting and storage. The resident of the Russian Federation, the Soviet Union's largest republic, today warned of a food shortage ``catastrophe'' in Russia unless efficiency improves. ``We have to gather it carefully, preserve it and get it onto the table of the Russian people,'' Boris N. Yeltsin said. ``The existing food situation in our republic is critical,'' he said in an appeal on the front page of the Sovietskaya Rossia newspaper. ``To prevent a catastrophe, we must improve it immediately.'' As an incentive, Yeltsin said the government would issue special coupons to agricultural workers, from farmers to tractor drivers, allowing them to buy goods that have been in short supply. Russian Prime Minister Ivan Silayev warned in a separate interview that if the market is not soon saturated with food and consumer goods ``the situation will be unpredictable.'' ``The prices will simply skyrocket and the shadow economy will capture everything,'' he told Pravitelstvenny Vestnik newspaper. Gorbachev said the next two years of reforms will be crucial. ``In these two years, in which we will have to make the most difficult changes, we need this kind of help,'' Gorbachev said. Some of the aid should be given quickly ``to reduce the difficulty of the problems, and so perestroika does not slow down,'' he said. However, he added, the Soviet Union ``cannot depend on foreign sponsors'' to fix its economy, but must depend largely on itself. Aid to his country will not be ``a handout,'' he said, but temporary assistance that must be paid back. The West German government has guaranteed $3.1 billion in bank loans to the Soviet Union, and together with France it pushed the European Community to endorse an immediate $15 billion aid program. But European leaders refused to go along with the plan, as did leaders of the world's seven largest capitalist powers meeting in Houston, Texas, earlier this month. President Bush says a program to provide the Soviet Union with Western advisers and know-how would be of greater benefit than economic aid until the Soviet Union makes greater changes in its economy. He also has asked Gorbachev to cut aid to countries like Cuba.
AP880707-0088 	X	A rocket blasted into space today carrying an unmanned probe on a six-month mission to Mars that is designed to help prepare for a manned voyage to the planet. Soviet television broke into its evening news program ``Vremya'' for a live broadcast of the 9:38 p.m. launch from the Baikonur space center in the Soviet Central Asian republic of Kazakhstan. A 180-foot-tall Proton rocket capped by the probe, Phobos I, erupted in white and gray smoke and orange and blue flames. The newscast switched to the Soviet Mission Control Center outside Moscow, which reported the spacecraft's flight was normal. More than a dozen nations are participating in the mission to swoop close to the surface of Mars' moon, Phobos, and drop probes onto the small, potato-shaped moon that scientists say may hold clues to how the universe was formed. A second satellite, Phobos II, is scheduled to blast off July 12. The satellites will enter Mars' gravity in January and begin a three-month remote study of the surface and atmosphere of Mars. After that, scientists said, they will draw closer to Phobos and drop descent vehicles carrying laser, ionic and radar equipment to help determine the internal structure and composition of the moon. The probes are expected to be sent to Phobos in about April of next year, according to Roald Sagdeyev, director of the Soviet Academy of Sciences' Space Research Institute. Soviet space scientists said Phobos is an important step toward a manned flight to Mars, which they hope can take place in the early 21st century. Officials including Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev have proposed that the United States take part in the mission. ``First, it is necessary to draw up a more accurate map of the Mars surface in order to choose a place for the future landing,'' said Vyacheslav Balebanov, a deputy to Sagdeyev. ``Then, it is necessary to study the climate and soil characteristics and find out whether oxygen should be taken from Earth, or whther it can be gotten directly on the planet. The study of Mars renewed under the Phobos program should provide answers to those questions,'' he said in an interview with the newspaper Sovietskaya Rossiya. Also participating in the project are Austria, Bulgaria, Hungary, East Germany, Ireland, Poland, Finland, France, West Germany, Czechoslovakia, Switzerland, Sweden, the United States and the European Space Agency. The Deep Space Network of the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration will provide tracking data to permit two 100-pound landers to reach Phobos, and then will begin to track the Martian moon precisely using antennas in California, Spain and Australia, and a Soviet radio telescope in the Crimea.
AP900301-0138 	X	WASHINGTON _ (AP) _ Democrats on Thursday urged President Bush to take a hard line against Japanese trade barriers when he meets with Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu this weekend, but they delayed action on retaliatory legislation. House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt, D-Mo., told Bush in a letter he should go into the meeting Saturday in California with the new prime minister armed with specific proposals for opening the Japanese market to more U.S. exports. ``The time for talking about the problem is coming to an end and the time to actually produce results is here,'' Gephardt said, referring to a continuing annual $50 billion U.S. trade deficit with Japan. Bush and Kaifu are meeting just a week after trade negotiators for the two countries made little progress in talks in Tokyo on removing structural barriers that effectively keep U.S. products and services out of the Japanese markets. U.S. officials had hoped for more progress after the ruling Liberal Democatic Party's large victory in Japan's parliamentary election Feb. 18, but the last round of talks remained focused largely on technical matters. ``Our negotiators are now complaining openly about Japanese intransigence,'' said Sen. Max Baucus, D-Mont., chairman of the Senate Finance Committee's trade subcommittee. Baucus had planned to asked the committee Thursday to approve a bill directing the administration to retaliate with new U.S. barriers to Japanese goods if Tokyo doesn't agree by a June 17 deadline to lower its barriers to American wood products. The deadline, established by the 1988 Trade Act, also applies to Japanese barriers to U.S. satellites and semiconductors. Baucus, however, agreed to withhold the bill after U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills told him in a letter Thursday the administration is prepared to retaliate on its own ``should the negotiations not conclude satisfactorily and on time.'' ``Hopefully, President Bush and Prime Minister Kaifu can make progress on these isses this weekend,'' he said. Baucus estimated that Japanese tariffs, building codes and other structural barriers are effectively keeping out between $1 billion and $2 billion in U.S. forest products at a cost of 10,000 jobs in this country.
AP900912-0107 	X	Chinese authorities are arresting and torturing Tibetans despite the end of martial law in Tibet, the Dalai Lama said Wednesday. The Nobel prize winner and spiritual leader of Tibetan Buddhists was in New York to help launch a yearlong campaign to raise public awareness of Tibetan culture and call attention to China's rule over his homeland. In March 1989, civil strife rocked Lhasa, the capital of Tibet, and martial law was imposed for a year. The Public Security Bureau in Tibet later said 387 Lhasa citizens died in the anti-Chinese riots. Most of them were Tibetans but some security forces also were killed, the bureau said. Tibetans claim more than 450 of their people were killed. Martial law was lifted in March, but the Dalai Lama told reporters ``the actual situation has not at all improved.'' ``The military uniformed personnel changed their clothes to police uniforms and plainclothes. ... Incidents of arrest and torture, these also continue,'' said the Dalai Lama, who won the 1989 Nobel Peace Prize for his leadership of his people. He said he feared that ``in 15 years, if present conditions don't change, the Tibetan community will become insignificant in its own land,'' now a province of China. About 6 million Tibetans still live in their homeland, but they are outnumbered by Chinese even in Tibet. ``After 40 years of Chinese occupation, much of Tibet's civilization has been destroyed,'' the Dalai Lama said. Actor Richard Gere, who is the president of Tibet House in New York, introduced the Dalai Lama at a news conference to begin the Year of Tibet, a series of art exhibits and cultural events to promote public awareness of Tibetan culture. ``Many of my friends find Tibetan culture quite healthy, quite useful,'' said the Dalai Lama, who then chuckled and added, ``But I don't know.'' Many of his remarks were sprinkled with self-deprecating humor. The Year of Tibet opens with a show of more than 150 works of Tibetan art, including 31 from the Hermitage collection in Leningrad, in April 1991 at the Asian Art Museum in San Francisco. It moves to New York in October 1991.
AP880812-0181 	X	The Nicaraguan government is withholding approval of the names the State Department has submitted as replacements for eight U.S. envoys who were expelled by Sandinista authorities last month, a spokesman said Friday. Other officials said the administration does not intend to replace Ambassador Richard Melton, who was among those expelled, but instead plans to send Kenneth Skoug, head of the State Department's office of Cuban affairs, to run the embassy. As embassy charge d'affairs, Skoug would not require Senate confirmation. The officials, speaking only on condition they not be named, said it was doubtful that any ambassadorial nominee could receive Senate confirmation before congressional adjournment on Oct. 8. They said Sandinista refusal to approve the envoys proposed as replacements apparently was in retaliation for the U.S. expulsion of Nicaraguan Ambassador Carlos Tunnermann, who served as chief envoy to both the United States and the Organization of American States. Nicaragua maintains that the administration acted beyond its authority in expelling a diplomat accredited to the OAS. State Department spokesman Charles Redman said a U.S.-Nicaraguan agreement calls for a reply to be given on visa applications for diplomats assigned to either country's embassy within five days of the visa request. The Nicaraguan Foreign Ministry informed the U.S. Embassy in Managua that this provision of the agreement had been suspended and that both the agreement and the U.S. visa requests were under review, Redman said. ``Stalling on the issuance of visas indicates the Sandinista regime wishes to prevent the U.S. Embassy from functioning normally,'' Redman said. On July 11, Nicaragua ordered the seven American diplomats to leave the country within 72 hours, charging that they had been interfering in Nicaragua's internal affairs by encouraging anti-government protests. The State Department denied that the diplomats had acted improperly and ordered Tunnermann and seven of his colleagues home. It said Tunnermann had engaged in unspecified illegal activities during his U.S. stsy and that a U.S. agreement with the OAS permitted the United States to expel any OAS diplomat guilty of such behavior.
AP900118-0158 	X	Up to 14 inches of snow fell Thursday over the mountains of the West and extended onto the southern Plains, while locally heavy rain fell over parts of the South. Record high temperatures were posted in the East. Overnight snow accumulations in Nevada included 14 inches at Mount Charleston, 12 inches at Goodsprings and Sandy Valley and 8 inches at Red Rock. Mount Charleston had 36 inches of snow on the ground at 9 a.m. Snowfall Wednesday and overnight into Thursday across Arizona included 18 inches at Ash Fork, up to 10 inches at Prescott, 5 inches at Cottonwood, and 1 to 3 inches at Flagstaff, Grand Canyon, Sedona, Payson and Bisbee. In southern Colorado, 4 inches of snow had fallen at the San Luis Valley at midmorning and snow was falling at the rate of 1 inch an hour at Wolf Creek Pass. Wind gusted to near 70 mph at Albuquerque, N.M., and to 80 to 100 mph in eastern sections of the city. In Texas, 2 inches of snow covered the ground at Amarillo at noon, with 5{ inches across the west side of town. ``The plows are out, it's still snowing and it's slick in spots,'' said a Department of Public Safety dispatcher in Dalhart, Texas. By 3 p.m., 6 inches of snow had fallen on the northern Panhandle city, and it was still snowing heavily. Two- and 3-inch overnight snowfalls were reported over the western two-thirds of the Oklahoma Panhandle. And 2 inches of snow fell during the morning at Hugoton, Kan. Ahead of the snow, showers and thunderstorms reached across northern Texas, western and southern Oklahoma, Louisiana, southern Arkansas, Mississippi, and southern Alabama. Tyler, Texas, got 1.71 inches of rain overnight, Longview, Texas, got 2.01 inches and up to 3 inches of rain was reported over Houston County. Thunderstorms also produced almost an inch of rain during one hour along with small hail at Abilene, Texas. Rain also fell over sections of southeastern California, southern Nevada and northern Arizona, changing to snow at higher elevations. Light rain was scattered over northeastern Ohio and northwestern Pennsylvania. Record highs included 70 at Baltimore; 62 at Boston; 54 at Burlington, Vt.; 57 at Concord, N.H.; 66 at Harrisburgh, Pa.; 64 at Philadelphia; 58 at Portland, Maine; 71 at Roanoke, Va.; 68 at Washington; and 65 at Wilmington, Del. Thursday's low for the Lower 48 states was 22 degrees below zero at Yellowstone National Park. Temperatures around the nation at 3 p.m. EST ranged from 6 degrees below zero at Yellowstone to 85 at Tampa, Fla.
AP880507-0185 	X	CBS Evening News anchor Dan Rather told the University of Oklahoma's graduating seniors Saturday that if America is to reclaim the ideals that made it great, today's graduates must acknowledge that ``greed is out'' and ``achievement is in.'' ``You must leave here today with a commitment to contribute,'' said Rather, commencement speaker for Oklahoma's 96th graduation exercise. ``Find a life's work worthy of yourself and your heritage, commit yourself with all the zeal that you can muster and throw yourself into it.'' In Stillwater, the state's new higher education chancellor told Oklahoma State University's graduating seniors that research funds will provide the means by which the state will successfully adapt to the future. ``Money, money, money ... that is what is needed. And we should not be bashful about it,'' said Chancellor Hans Brisch.
AP880520-0275 	X	The prosecutor responsible for convicting reputed cocaine kingpin Carlos Lehder Rivas says the powerful Medellin Cartel's days are now numbered, but a defense lawyer predicts the verdict will be overturned. Lehder was convicted Thursday of smuggling more than three tons of cocaine into the United States. Authorities say the 38-year-old Colombian was a key figure in the cartel, a violent drug ring responsible for about 80 percent of U.S. cocaine imports. The flamboyant Lehder, described by witnesses as a one-time New York City street hood, was characterized by U.S. Attorney Robert W. Merkle, chief prosecutor in the case, as the most important drug smuggler brought to trial in the United States. The verdict capped a seven-month trial on an 11-count federal indictment charging him with taking over the island of Norman's Cay in the Bahamas to smuggle cocaine into Florida and Georgia from 1978 to 1980.
AP901107-0095 	X	Lawton Chiles' coattails failed to help son Ed Chiles win a seat in the Florida Senate. Lawton Chiles was elected governor, but his son lost in Senate District 24 on the state's southwest coast to businessman John McKay. ``I feel like a winner,'' said Ed Chiles, like his father, a Democrat. ``I just don't feel like a loser.'' He said he was pleased with the 48 percent of the vote he received in the heavily Republican district. Ed Chiles, a restaurant owner from Holmes Beach, said he may not be coming to Tallahassee as a senator, but plans to visit the governor's mansion. ---
AP880930-0194 	X	Solidarity leader Lech Walesa said Thursday he will be able to work with newly appointed Prime Minister Mieczyslaw Rakowski despite past differences. ``I know his arguments and his way of thinking,'' the leader of the banned trade union movement said, speaking at a news conference on his 45th birthday. Walesa referred to the legal period of Solidarity in 1981, when Rakowski was deputy prime minister in charge of dealing with trade unions. Solidarity was banned in early 1982. ``I always came to Mr. Rakowski in those times with various problems and I always looked afterward at what I got, and not at Mr. Rakowski. I have to admit I had no complaints about the work,'' he said. ``Similarly now I am ready to solve all the problems that I am going to raise. I have enough arguments, all of Europe and the world know them,'' said Walesa, winner of the 1983 Nobel Peace Prize. Parliament on Tuesday overwhelmingly approved Rakowski as the country's ninth prime minister since World War II. The government led by Zbigniew Messner resigned Sept. 19 following strong criticism of its failure to achieve reform. In his speech to Parliament, Rakowski asked for two weeks to form a government of people with ``reformatory attitudes'' and said he hoped to broaden the Communist-dominated government. Walesa said he could shed no light on exactly when planned round-table talks with authorities slated for mid-October will begin. Authorities agreed to the talks on Solidarity after a wave of strikes in August. ``Society is waiting for the round-table talks, that is evident,'' Walesa said. He said Solidarity would object if the talks were stretched out for too long. ``We are not marathon runners,'' he said. In a statement issued Thursday, the Warsaw branch of the Club of Catholic Intelligentsia urged the round-table to take decisions to change the form of public life in Poland and called for legalization of Solidarity. ``The fulfillment of this postulate (legalization of Solidarity) is the essential condition of actual reform of political and economic life,'' the statement said. Club President Andrzej Stelmachowski has played a key role as an intermediary between the authorities and Solidarity recently. In London, the opposition Labor Party on Thursday accused British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of ``supreme hypocrisy'' in arranging to meet Walesa Oct. 18 in Gdansk at the end of a three-day official visit. ``She is undermining the position of trades unions at home while appearing to encourage trades unionists in another country,'' said George Foulkes, Labor Party foreign affairs spokesman. Mrs. Thatcher's Conservative government has drastically reduced British labor union powers.
AP900302-0022 	X	The Pentagon must provide a realistic five-year spending plan because the current budget indicates that $138 billion in spending cuts are needed to meet President Bush's defense goal, a congressional report says. ``The Congress is faced with budget decisions that will have long-term implications, but without an updated five-year defense plan, it does not have the information necessary to fully assess alternatives,'' Comptroller General Charles Bowsher told the Senate Armed Services Committee on Thursday. Bowsher presented the General Accounting Office's assessment of defense spending. The investigative arm of Congress found that Bush's budget for fiscal 1991 includes a five-year program that projects spending of $1.5 trillion. That total is $212 billion less than the recent five-year plan that the administration prepared in fiscal 1989. However, the Pentagon has come up with only $74 billion in reductions from the 1989 projections. ``The Defense Department is still faced with decisions on how and where to make reductions of another $138 billion between fiscal 1992 and fiscal 1994,'' Bowsher said. The Pentagon, he said, has said the dramatic changes in Eastern Europe and the lessening Soviet threat to the West has made it difficult to decide where and how the reductions will be made. The comptroller general said the GAO does not expect the Pentagon to act hastily, but the decisions must be made soon. Bowsher suggested that the administration ``rethink our entire weapon system acquisition strategy,'' starting with the B-2 stealth bomber and the multiple-warhead MX nuclear missile. Repeating testimony he gave last week to the House Armed Services Committee, Bowsher suggested slowing down production of the costly stealth bomber until critical tests have been completed on the radar-evading aircraft. According to the GAO, the current schedule calls for spending more than $48 billion and ordering 31 bombers before critical performance tests have been conducted. The GAO also found that the Air Force plans to make an initial production decision on moving the MX missile from fixed silos to railroad cars before operational tests and evaluations have been done on the completed system. Shortly after the production decision, the Air Force plans to buy about 73 percent of the launch cars for the MX. Bowsher said that during the 1980s, the strategy of concurrent production and testing ``was designed to get systems in the field more quickly, but it often resulted in making extensive _ and expensive _ changes after the systems were fielded.'' The B-2 bomber and the MX rail-garrison program are following the same path, he said. Overall, the comptroller general painted a dire financial picture as he accused the Bush administration of spending projections that are ``the result of creative bookkeeping; they do not portray the real situation.'' According to Bowsher, the government is using surpluses in the federal trust funds for Social Security, highways and other divisions to cover up the real budget deficit. ``If we continue along this same path, we can expect the national debt to increase to $4.5 trillion by fiscal year 1995,'' Bowsher said. ``A debt of this magnitude would require annual interest payments of over $335 billion and would represent the largest single item in the federal budget.''
AP900525-0257 	X	An administrative law judge found Brian P. Monieson, former head of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, guilty Friday of failing to adequately supervise two employees accused of defrauding customers. Monieson, chairman of GNP Commodities Inc., was barred from futures trading and ordered to pay a $500,000 fine. GNP Commodities was found guilty of similar charges and ordered to close all customer accounts within 30 days and pay a $500,000 fine. Monieson's attorney, Jerrold E. Salzman, said the penalties against his client and the trading firm are on hold while the ruling is appealed to the full Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The two traders, Ira P. Greenspon and Norman K. Furlett, also were found guilty by Judge George Painter of the CFTC. A lawyer said they were considering an appeal. ``The fraud in this case was committed against the retail customers, a euphemism for relatively small public customers who are virtually defenseless,'' Painter said. ``The shame of this case is that GNP and Monieson were so callously indifferent to the wrongs done to their most vulnerable customers,'' he added. CFTC attorneys said Greenspon and Furlett engaged in ``allocated'' trades that bilked customers of thousands of dollars. The term refers to initiating futures contracts without the required customer account numbers, then keeping profitable trades for themselves while socking customers with the losses. ``The facts set forth in this matter constitute a pernicious, widespread and institutionalized scheme of cheating and defrauding customers,'' Painter said. He banned Greenspon and Furlett, both of Malibu, Calif., from the futures industry and fined them $75,000 each. Monieson's attorneys argued that as chairman of Chicago-based GNP Commodities, he was not involved in daily oversight of his employees and should not be liable for failing to stop any wrongdoing. Painter dismissed those claims, referring to testimony from others who said Monieson was clearly a hands-on manager. ``It appears that Monieson's misplaced allegiance to Furlett and Greenspon overshadowed his greater duty to the customers they were defrauding,'' the judge said. Monieson, of Northbrook, Ill., and GNP Commodities were found guilty of failing to adequately supervise the two traders from September 1984 through May 1986. Monieson was Merc chairman from 1983 to 1985. Futures are contracts to buy or sell commodities, ranging from agricultural products to stocks and bonds, at a specified price on a future date. People trade futures contracts either to lock in commodity prices in advance, thereby reducing their financial risk, or to speculate on price changes. In Chicago, GNP Commodities issued a statement calling Painter's decision ``unprecedented and unwarranted.'' If executives are responsible for their traders' misdeeds, even when the executives did not personally benefit, ``no firm could continue to do business,'' the statement said. Mark S. Boyle, one of two attorneys representing Greenspon and Furlett, said he had not seen the entire 135-page ruling but was considering an appeal. ``We still maintain they did nothing wrong,'' Boyle said. Neither of the men currently works for GNP Commodities, he said. Meanwhile, in Chicago, the Merc on Friday fined GNP Commodities $100,000 and told the firm to continue its voluntary effort to pay $300,000 to customers who may have been harmed. Under a proposed settlement with the Merc, GNP Commodities neither admits nor denies violating exchange rules.
AP900915-0036 	X	South Korea launched regular ferry service with China today for the first time since the Korean peninsula was divided in 1945. A 4,300-ton ferryboat carrying 130 people left the western port city of Inchon for Weihai on China's Shandong peninsula, the South Korean news agency Yonhap reported. The boat will leave Inchon twice a week, Yonhap said. It will fly a Panamanian flag because the two countries have no diplomatic relations. South Korea has strengthened economic and non-political ties with China, a close ally of Communist North Korea. In recent months it has also increased ties with the Soviet Union and most of the formerly Communist nations in Eastern Europe. China intervened on North Korea's side in the 1950-53 war between the Koreas. The two Koreas have never signed a peace treaty, and hundreds of thousands of troops guard their borders.
AP880329-0116 	X	Rep. James Howard, D-N.J., who died last week after suffering a heart attack, was eulogized today as a productive congressman whose contributions can be seen throughout the country. ``He worked hard and he played hard and he laughed full-tilt,'' said House Speaker Jim Wright, D-Texas, who spoke during a Roman Catholic funeral Mass for Howard. ``His candle burned brightly for 60 years and others came and lighted their candles from him,'' said Wright. More than 850 people, including four busloads of congressmen and their aides, attended the service at St. Catharine's Church here. Aides to Howard restricted access to the church because it could hold about 400 people, and a crowd of about 450 watched from the street as the casket was brought into the church. Loudspeakers broadcast the service to those gathered outside. Howard, 60, died Friday, a day after suffering a heart attack while playing golf in a Washington suburb. He represented the state's 3rd Congressional District and served in the House for 22 years. He was the second-most senior member of New Jersey's congressman behind Rep. Peter Rodino, also a Democrat. Acting as pallbearers at today's funeral were Sen. Bill Bradley and Rep. Robert A. Roe, both D-N.J., Rep. John Paul Hammerschmidt, R-Ark., state Sen. Frank Pallone, D-Monmouth, and Monmouth County freeholders John Villapiano and John D'Amico. Rep. Morris K. Udall, D-Ariz., also spoke during the service. ``Jim was one of the best, most productive congressmen, most beloved congressmen,'' said Udall, who attributed Howard's success to his honesty and his enthusiasm. ``I never saw anyone with a more infectious manner come to the House floor. He was everywhere at once,'' said Udall. As chairman of the House Public Works and Transportation Committee, Howard largely controlled highway and transportation projects nationwide. ``The handy work and fruits of Jim's labor'' can be seen in Monmouth County as well as across the nation, Wright said. In Washington on Monday, the House and Senate voted unanimously to name the New Jersey segment of Interstate 195 after Howard. Howard's staff says it will continue to provide service to constituents, although the district will not have a vote in the House until a successor is elected. Gov. Thomas H. Kean must call a special election to replace Howard and has said he will consider holding it Nov. 8 as part of the general election. Third District voters would be asked to pick someone to finish the final two months of Howard's term, and cast a second vote to choose a congressman for a full term beginning in January 1989.
AP880327-0008 	X	State Sen. Greg Tarver was shot and wounded Saturday night, but refused to press charges after identifying the attacker as his wife, police said. The shooting happened at Tarver's home less than an hour after he returned from a special session of the Legislature in Baton Rouge. Police learned of the shooting when Tarver's mother phoned to report it, said Police Chief Charles Gruber. Tarver, 41, a senator since 1984 and one of only a handful of blacks in the 39-member body, was taken to LSU Medical Center, Gruber said. Hospital spokeswoman Elaine King said he was in stable condition, and a doctor said he was taken into surgery. Gruber said Tarver was shot once in the upper chest with a small caliber weapon about 6:45 p.m. ``He has identified his assailant as his wife, Sabrina,'' said Gruber, who disclosed no motive at a hospital news conference. ``There are no charges being filed at this time,'' Gruber said. ``She is not in custody at this time. We are not looking for her at this time. ``Sen. Tarver requested that we not pursue anything at the moment,'' he said, adding that police would pursue an investigation in case Tarver changed his mind about pressing charges. Gruber would not say where Mrs. Tarver was, and there was no answer at the Tarver home. Dr. Darryl Williams, dean of the LSU Medical School, said Tarver was taken into surgery. And, though he wouldn't speculate on the risk, Williams added: ``Any injury in that area can be life-threatening.'' Several of Tarver's legislative colleagues and one of Gov. Buddy Roemer's aides went to the hospital soon after he was shot.
AP900319-0022 	X	For East German voters, it's not just unification that lies over the rainbow. It's Western prosperity as well. That was the main message from Sunday's historic free elections, which gave the conservatives a huge and unexpected win. Born in church basements where young activists once met to hide from the despised secret police, the peaceful revolution that ousted hard-line Communist rulers five months ago quickly lost its innocence and idealism. After unleashing tens of thousands of people on the streets, the New Forum opposition movement found that the thirst for riches soon drowned out calls to reform socialism for the good of the people. East Germans, many with tears in their eyes, asked over and over again ``what have we been doing for 40 years?'' as they gazed in wonder at the glittering shops of West Berlin after the Berlin Wall crumbled in November. Chancellor Helmut Kohl of West Germany, spotting the most basic of all election issues, furiously campaigned throughout East Germany with a message of ``prosperity for all.'' Many recalled that that was also a favorite slogan of Chancellor Ludwig Erhard, the late West German leader who guided the post-war ``economic miracle.'' Sunday's conservative win, engineered in large part by Kohl, shows that East Germans believe in a second economic miracle. ``The East Germans have voted for the West German mark and for unification,'' commented West Germany's ARD television network. ``It was important for them that Kohl was the one with the keys to the cash box.'' And that, said ARD, set the Christian Democratic chancellor apart from West Germany's opposition Social Democrats, who often lectured East German voters on the need to slow down the pace of unification and curb their expectations. While Poles, Hungarians and Czechoslovaks now enjoy once-unthinkable democracy, it will take them years, if not decades, to reform their economies. The governments will have to attract and compete for Western investment at the same time they learn to cope with multiparty systems. For East Germans, the road to recovery seems much closer. ``The decisive thought for East Germans may have been, `If we vote for Kohl, the money will flow,''' said Oskar Lafontaine, the Social Democrat governor of West Germany's Saarland state who will try to unseat Kohl in December elections. In fact, East German leftists had joined the Communists several times in recent weeks in virtually begging Kohl for billions of dollars in bailout money to save the ravaged economy. Each time, Kohl's heavily publicized answer was ``no'' _ not until the East German voters show they want true economic reform. Even so, it's a long way from voting in the conservatives to accepting the bitter pills Kohl's economic advisers and West German investors are likely to be handing out. East Germans, some still covered with grease and dressed in overalls, had been seizing the microphones at dozens of panel discussions to denounce any reforms that would cost their jobs. But last week's announcement that West German-led economic reforms will cost 100,000 jobs in the East German automobile industry and related sectors is believed to be just the tip of the iceberg. Another potentially destabilizing factor is the continuing hemorrhage of East Germans relocating to West Germany, many of them trying to take a shortcut to prosperity. ``I don't think the results themselves will stop the emigration,'' conceded East German Christian Democratic leader Lothar de Maiziere, the top contender for the premier's post. ``Rather, it's a question of measures that now must be taken.'' With the number of emigrants heading West at up to 2,500 a day, those measures will have to be fast and convincing. Kohl himself used his first post-election statements to plead with East Germans to stay put and help build up their ``beautiful country.'' There was no mention of the country's decaying homes nor of its pollution-choked rivers and air. Left behind with only a few crumbs thrown by loyal voters were New Forum and other leftist groups that had preached the need for East Germans to maintain their own identity and forge a ``new path'' between capitalism and socialism. ``It's not the first time that a people has forgotten its own martyrs,'' commented ARD television, noting that many of the pioneers of the pro-democracy movement had spent years in jail working for their cause. Said Stephan Bickhardt of the leftist Democracy Now party: ``The revolution has cast off its children.'' Democracy Now, New Forum and another leftist group had joined together in a much publicized coalition that failed to get even 3 percent of the votes. Other East Germans also see the end of another failed experiment in socialism. ``It's just proof that people really are just looking for riches and a trip to Tenerife,'' complained government worker Elke Heise, naming the Canary Island that's a favorite vacation spot for hordes of sun-hungry West Germans each year. Added East Berlin engineer Fred Mauer: ``The Christian Democrats can now do with us whatever they want.'' And that's likely to include even more shots called by a West German chancellor eager to see his name go down in history books as the man who united a people torn asunder by the crimes and madness of Adolf Hitler.
AP880827-0099 	X	The certified world's champion credit-card collector _ he never leaves home without a bunch of them _ says he wants to get even more of the handy little plastics. Walter Cavanagh, ``Mr. Fantastic Plastic'' as he calls himself, says he is determined to get one of each of the 10,000 credit cards he estimates are available in this country. He figures it will take him five years to reach his goal. ``I figure I only have 12 percent of what's out there,'' he said in an interview last week. ``My goal is to get them all.'' Cavanagh, whose 1,099 credit cars earned him a paragraph in the Guinness Book of World Records, said he applies for 100 cards a month, and gets few refusals. `I did get a letter from a gas company back East asking why I wanted a card since I lived 3,000 miles from one of their stations,'' Cavanagh said. He doesn't owe on any of the cards because he pays his bills in full. He has found the only drawback to collecting plastics is the barrage of catalogs and other buy-me goodies he gets daily. ``My mailman hates me,'' he said.
AP900523-0057 	X	Harvard University has sold the stock it owned in companies that manufacture tobacco products because of the dangers of smoking. The university decided to sell the stocks last September and completed the sales in March, according to Harvard President Derek Bok. He revealed the sale May 18 in a letter to three Harvard School of Public Health students, who had been demanding the university sell its investments in companies manufacturing cigarettes. ``In reaching its decision, the corporation was motivated by a desire not to be associated as a shareholder with companies engaged in significant sales of products that create a substantial and unjustified risk of harm to other human beings,'' Bok wrote. Dr. Allan Blum, a Houston physician and chairman of Doctors Ought To Care, a national anti-smoking group that pushes for divestment of tobacco stocks, called Harvard's decision a ``breakthrough morally and financially.'' ``This is a historic event that can't help but send a message that there's something rotten about holding tobacco stocks,'' Blum said. Sara Ridgway, vice president of public affairs for the Lorillard Tobacco Co., said the decision may deprive Harvard of profitable stock investments. ``I think it would behoove them to look at the best investments, and our stock has done very well,'' she said. Bok said the decision was based on an Advisory Committee on Shareholder Responsibility review. He also said tobacco companies did not adequately answer questions about ethical issues in selling tobacco and their adherence to World Health Organization guidelines for marketing tobacco products in the Third World.
AP880622-0314 	X	Orders to U.S. factories for ``big ticket'' durable goods plunged 2.2 percent in May, the steepest dive in nine months, the government said today. The Commerce Department said orders for durables goods, items expected to last three or more years, totaled a seasonally adjusted $114.8 billion last month. It was the biggest drop in new orders since August, when orders plummeted 2.3 percent, and followed a 1.8 percent increase in April, revised upward from a previous estimate of 1.0 percent. The entire May decline can be accounted for by a precipitous 9 percent decline in orders for transportation equipment. At the White House, spokesman B. Jay Cooper called the report on new orders ``volatile. May's decline should not be cause for concern. Shipments continue to show strength and the backlog of unfilled orders remains high.'' ``More news that inflation remains under control. It is good news,'' Copper added. Economists were surprised by the report. Most had predicted a rise of more than 2 percent in orders on the strength of two big orders late in May to Boeing Commercial Airplanes Co., one from United Airlines, the other from American Airlines. But those orders apparently were not recorded in the Commerce Department's preliminary estimate of durable goods. Excluding transportation, orders increased 0.3 percent. Excluding just aircraft, overall orders increased 0.6 percent. Cynthia Latta, senior financial economist at Data Resources Inc., a Lexington, Mass., forecasting firm, said excluding aircraft and defense, order levels are ``not half bad.'' ``I think what we're seeing is what we want to see, which is continued growth, but maybe some moderation of the pace,'' she said. Stronger growth would inject inflation pressure into the economy, she said. Orders in the volatile defense goods category fell 16.6 percent to $8.3 billion, following an increase of 1.9 percent a month earlier. Excluding defense, orders declined 0.9 percent following a 1.8 percent rise in April. The key category of non-defense capital goods, considered a sign of business expansion plans, fell 6.9 percent last month, following a 3.4 percent rise a month earlier. Despite the setback in May, analysts still expect export-producing manufacturers to spend heavily on modernization and expansion. Orders for primary metals, such as steel, zoomed 5.5 percent following a 1.6 percent rise in April. Orders for electrical machinery also posted a strong gain, 3.5 percent, following a 5.0 percent rise a month before. There was a 2.4 percent decline in orders for non-electrical machinery, more than erasing a 1.2 percent gain in April. Shipments of durable goods rose 1.5 percent in May to $114.4 billion, following a 0.9 percent decline in April.
AP880520-0219 	X	ROBERT DOLE Income: $310,310-$329,995. Honoraria: $106,050, of which $80,000 was donated to charity. Gifts: $11,858. Assets: $275,290-$579,277. Liabilities: None. Dole's income included $50,000 in royalties from a joint autobiography with his wife, $30,000 for a daily radio talk show and a $13,896 Army pension. His gifts included a Steuben glass apple from the New York State Republican Committee and an $800 crystal sculpture from the Columbia University Business School. His wife, Elizabeth Hanford Dole, reported income $221,538-$301,025 and up. Her qualified blind trust generated income of more than $100,000. She had assets of $440,005-$975,000 and liabilities of $50,001-$100,000. Mrs. Dole accepted gifts valued at $2,937, including air travel, a $900 brooch from Countess Sophie Vavlitis of New York City; and a $500 ``Cuatro'' guitar from Anibal Marrero of Puerto Rico, a $150 suit from Rep. Jim Lightfoot, R-Iowa, and his wife; and $35 in roses from Senate Majority Leader Robert Byrd and his wife.
AP901217-0129 	X	The Pentagon on Monday charged that a House committee's report on the Strategic Defense Initiative is basically a ``rewrite of a fundamentally flawed'' congressional report released in July. ``There are a number of problems with the conclusions and finding of both reports,'' the Pentagon's Strategic Defense Initiative Organization said in a one-page statement responding to the study done by the Government Operations Committee. The panel report, issued Sunday, cited a General Accounting Office study issued this past summer that raised serious questions about deploying the first phase of the strategic defense system, commonly known as Star Wars, in 1993. The General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress, said detailed tests planned by the SDIO wouldn't be completed by the time the president has to decide whether to go ahead with deployment. Based on the problems of incomplete testing, the General Accopunting Office said it did not believe the ``will be able to give the president enough information to support a 1993 decision to deploy Phase 1.'' The incorporation of the ``Brilliant Pebbles'' concept into the strategic defense system in January drastically changed its design, leaving it in a state of flux. ``Brilliant Pebbles'' are several thousand interceptors that would orbit the Earth to seek and destroy a target by smashing into it at high speeds. The House committee, chaired by Rep. John Conyers, D-Mich., warned that Brilliant Pebbles could become the next version of the ill-fated Hubble telescope, the $1.5 billion telescope whose primary mirror is flawed and provides a blurred view of its viewing targets. Responding to the reports, the SDIO said the 1993 decision was never a decision on whether to deploy but rather a choice on moving toward full-scale development. ``Given recent budget cuts, all decisions have been delayed by at least two years - and deployment of Brilliant Pebbles would not begin before late in this decade,'' the SDIO said. The organization also contends that the General Accounting Office exaggerated the changes in design of the system after the introduction of Brilliant Pebbles. It also said the president could make a decision on the system with the tests planned. The organization added that cost estimates are continuing to drop, ``a trend which we believe all in Congress should support.'' ``The recent House Goverment Operations Committee report on the Strategic Defense Initiative is essentially a rewrite of a fundamentally flawed GAO report released earlier this year,'' the SDIO said.
AP880309-0265 	X	Here are the latest, unofficial results in the Republican races for the U.S Senate.
AP880303-0140 	X	A tentative settlement has been reached in the week-old Cleveland teachers' strike, a federal mediator said today. ``I'm happy to say that the School Board and the Cleveland Federation of Teachers reached a tentative agreement and will be reporting back to their respective constituencies,'' Jack Buettner said late this morning. ``The parties will then review the details of the proposal at that time.'' Details of the agreement were not disclosed, pending a ratification vote. Superintendent Al Tutela declined to comment on when schools might re-open for the district's nearly 73,000 students. Eugene Kolach, president of the 5,100-member teachers union, said union negotiators will recommend to the union's executive committee that the tentative agreement be approved. Early this morning, members of the Cleveland School Board said they believed progress was being made toward ending the strike. On Tuesday, Craig Brown, chief negotator for the school board, had said talks seemed to be snagged on the issue of ``career ladder,'' a plan to hinge some pay raises largely on performance evaluations. The union's contract expired in September. Teaching salaries range from $17,600 to $37,450, depending on education and experience. The average teacher makes $29,000 annually. Tutela said the district's 2,951 non-teaching school employees, such as maintenance workers and janitors, were being laid off this week. The layoffs were to continue during the strike, he said.
AP880718-0220 	X	EDITOR'S NOTE _ Since her one-woman show, ``Without You I'm Nothing,'' opened off-Broadway in March, Sandra Bernhard has at last tasted the stardom she dreamed about as an insecure little girl in Arizona. Critics praise her brilliant monologues of fantasy and pop cultural commentary. Night-life columnists dog her. That's just for openers.
AP880818-0167 	X	Jerry Dorris is one person who would like to see the Republican National Convention last longer. Business at his video rental store is up 20 percent as a prime alternative to all the political talk. ``I wish the conventions were each two months long and were held every year,'' said Dorris, owner of Landmark Video in the Empire State Building, where comedies and action adventures were alternatives to acceptance speeches. ``The majority of our customers want to be entertained after a day of work. They don't want to be bored by the convention. The general comment is they've had enough and they'd much rather watch a movie,'' Dorris said Thursday. A spot check of other stores indicated movie fans have elected to tune out the George Bush and Dan Quayle show, which has filled prime time for the three networks, and flicked to fantasyland instead. ``The Manchurian Candidate'' was doing well in some areas, but political movies such as ``All The President's Men,'' ``The Candidate'' with Robert Redford and ``Advise and Consent'' gathered dust on the shelves. Nor was there much demand for Ronald Reagan's ``Bedtime For Bonzo'' or ``Knute Rockne _ All-American,'' the movie where he first asked his mentor to win one for the Gipper. ``People are pretty bored with the convention,'' said Sue Granat, salesperson at New York City's Videoroom, where rentals are up 25 percent. ``There hasn't been a good convention since the Democrats in 1968. That had drama and violence,'' she said. Rentals also increased during the Democratic gathering in Atlanta, but the earlier convention at least had some electricity between Jesse Jackson and Miachel Dukakis, store officials said. At the Video Circus, rentals were up 33 percent for the week. ``Everyone is complaining, coming in here and saying they don't want to be bored,'' said store owner Frank Lopez. ``I guess it's important, but it's quite monotonous after a while. I mean, really, four days of that stuff?''
AP900608-0233 	X	Grain and soybean futures were mixed in early trading today on the Chicago Board of Trade. Corn prices opened higher as rains continue to hamper planting and increases the likelihood of a reduced crop yield, said Victor Lespinasse, an analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. However, traders began to liquidate their positions for the weekend, and futures were moving lower. Soybean futures were steady to slightly lower as soggy fields delay the planting of the soybean crop. But the potential for increased soybean acreage as farmers switch from corn is weighing on prices. Wheat futures were higher on reports that disease is spreading through the soft red winter wheat crop in the southern Midwest, Lespinasse said. In early trading, wheat was a { cent to 1 cent higher with the contract for delivery in July at $3.35\ a bushel; corn was 1 cent lower to 3 cents higher with July at $2.87 a bushel; oats were } cent lower to 1 cent higher with July at $1.48{ a bushel; soybeans were a \ cent to 2 cents lower with July at $6.02{ a bushel. Livestock futures were mostly higher and pork futures lower in trading on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. Cattle prices were higher on follow-through buying from Thursday's strong close and on active meat sales. Pork futures plunged on fund liquidation due to lower cash prices. Live cattle were .15 cent lower to .28 cent higher with June at 75.30 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .03 cent to .20 cent higher with August at 85.30 cents a pound; hogs were .27 cent to 1.02 cents lower with June at 63.80 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .55 cent lower to .03 cent higher with July at 66.85 cents a pound. Livestock and pork futures settled mixed in Thursday's trading.
AP881022-0141 	X	Stormy weather spread heavy rain, wind and cold air across parts of New England on Saturday, with snow at some higher elevations, while high wind whistled across parts of the northern Plains. A strong low pressure system over the southern New England coast spread rain over much of the region during the night and into Saturday morning. During the six hours up to 2 p.m. EDT, 1.70 inches of rain fell at Brunswick, Maine; with 1.50 at Portland, Maine; and 1.05 inches at Portsmouth, N.H. Colder air poured in behind the low and changed the rain to wet snow over parts of south-central and northeastern New York state and over most of Vermont. Up to 10 inches of snow accumulated at higher elevations of Tompkins County in New York's southern tier. Six to 8 inches of snow was measured across Schuyler County, and Ithaca got 5 inches. The heavy, wet snow in Tompkins County downed several trees and power lines, and at 3 p.m. about half the county was without electricity, said Julie Morehouse, a spokeswoman for the county sheriff's department. In Cortland, N.Y., deputies said downed poles and power lines caused widespread blackouts and roads were slippery and thick with slush. Auburn, N.Y., asked Rochester for emergency generators to provide temporary electricity while utility crews worked to restore service. The New England coast was battered by strong wind, with gusts to near 60 mph at Bar Harbor, Maine, during the afternoon. Strong wind and heavy rain knocked down power lines in parts of Maine, and Central Maine Power Co. spokesman Clark Irwin said an estimated 3,000 to 5,000 customers were blacked out in the Portland area alone. At Bath, Maine, the scheduled launching of a new Aegis cruiser was postponed at Bath Iron Works, the first launching to be put off since 1967. Snow was also reported over the higher elevations of southern West Virginia. Showers were widely scattered from the lower Great Lakes into the mid Atlantic Coast. Strong, gusty wind blew over the northern Rockies and northern high Plains behind a cold front moving across the northern Plains, and a few showers developed over central Montana. Gusts to near 60 mph were recorded at Rapid City, S.D., and to 52 mph at Wheatridge, Colo. While the Northeast had snow and cold, the central high Plains had temperatures in the 80s over northwestern Kansas and eastern Colorado. Readings also hit the 80s over much of southern and central Texas, extreme southern Florida and the desert Southwest. In Central America, Hurricane Joan was downgraded to a tropical storm after moving across Nicaragua, causing several deaths and considerable damage. Temperatures around the nation at 3 p.m. EDT ranged from 32 degrees at Binghamton and Saranac Lake, N.Y., to 98 at Palm Springs, Calif. Saturday morning's low for the 48 states was 11 degrees at Gunnison, Colo. For Sunday, widespread rain was forecast from the Great Lakes through the middle Mississippi valley and the lower Ohio and Tennessee valleys into eastern Texas and the lower Mississippi Valley. Rain changing to snow was forecast over northern Minnesota and northwestern Wisconsin. Scattered rain was forecast over the eastern Great Lakes and northern Maine. Highs only in the 30s were predicted over northern Minnesota; in the 40s from the northern Plains through the upper Mississippi Valley into northern New England; in the 70s and 80s from the Pacific Coast through the Great Basin of Nevada and western Utah, the southern Rockies, much of Texas and the Gulf Coast states into the southern Atlantic Coast and Florida; in the low to mid 90s over north-central California and the desert Southwest; and in the 50s or 60s across much of the rest of the nation.
AP880330-0035 	X	A cloth diaper importer has offered this town a year's worth of free diapers to show his appreciation for the town fathers' refusing to let welfare recipients buy the disposable kind. Philip D. Anderson, president of Empire Trading Co. Ltd. of Syracuse, N.Y., said he will supply as many cotton diapers as the town needs at no charge. He said his offer was prompted by a news story about the town's Feb. 16 decision to remove disposable diapers from the list of allowable local welfare expenses. Anderson said his company supplies diaper services and mail-order houses with Chinese-made diapers designed to retain their shape after laundering. The town's policy change has drawn support from environmentalists and fiscal conservatives who agree with the choice of traditional cloth diapers as an appropriate technology that saves taxpayers' money. Critics have accused Lisbon officials of making a rash decision to balance the budget on innocent babies' bottoms. In a letter to the Times Record in nearby Brunswick, Peggy Cotton of West Bath said the restriction was ``for a baby who's helpless'' and she suggested that town officials ``get their savings someplace else.'' Connie A. France, Lisbon's welfare director, recommended the policy because throwaway diapers cost $10 a box, while cloth diapers, even with laundering costs considered, are less of a drain on the town's welfare budget. France said it would be up to the selectmen whether to accept Anderson's offer. But, she added, ``I'm sure they will.'' France said she had no idea how big a diaper demand there was over a year's time but, pending the selectmen's decision, she would order a gross of diapers from Anderson. The welfare director said that while the diaper rules may have caused a stir outside Lisbon, there have been no complaints from her clients. Town Manager John Bubier said Lisbon officials have received letters and phone calls from across the country in response to the diaper policy, with ``about 98 percent of them'' backing up the selectmen. He said 200 to 300 individuals in this town of 12,000 usually receive public assistance benefits during the course of a year. The local welfare budget totals about $35,000.
AP880419-0037 	X	Sponsors of the Templeton Prize for Progress in Religion postponed presenting the $369,000 prize to this year's winner while they investigate charges that he fostered anti-Semitism, a newspaper reported. Inamullah Khan, secretary-general of the World Moslem Congress, was chosen last month to receive the award. He was the first Moslem to win the award, which has been presented 15 times. The American Jewish Committee and the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith protested, saying that Khan and his organization had fostered anti-Semitism for years, The New York Times reported Tuesday. Khan, 73, of Pakistan, has denied the charges and said: ``I can never support anti-Semitic feelings because I am myself a descendant of Semitic ancestors from the Middle East.'' He said he differs with Zionists ``because the U.N. General Assembly has declared Zionism a racist creed.'' The decision to delay the presentation was announced last week, the Times said. Khan's supporters say he and his organization have been more willing than other Islamic groups to maintain contacts with Jewish representatives in national and international settings. However, The Moslem World, a newsletter of the World Moslem Congress, has published many comments critical of Jews and Zionism. The newsletter also has advertised and endorsed ``The Protocols of the Elders of Zion'' and Henry Ford's ``The International Jew,'' both notorious anti-Semitic tracts. Past recipients of the prize include Mother Teresa, the Rev. Billy Graham and Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn. Sir John Templeton, an American-born financier living in the Bahamas, established the prize in 1972 as a religious counterpart to the Nobel Prizes for peace, science and literature.
AP900404-0066 	X	Lawmakers in the nation's second-largest city approved the distribution of chlorine bleach for cleaning needles to slow the spread of AIDS among intravenous drug users. The council vote was unanimous Tuesday after an emotional hearing in which one unidentified man was escorted from chambers when he tried to shout down supporters of the program. The $25,000 allocated for distribution of kits containing bleach and condoms was part of an $85,000 AIDS prevention and education program. The bleach kills the AIDS virus on needles, which drug addicts often share. The money also establishes a central AIDS treatment and information center. San Francisco is the only other governmental agency in California that distributes bleach to clean needles. New York also distributes bleach _ and recently withdrew from a program to distribute clean needles. Critics of the programs charge they promote drug abuse. Supporters say drug abuse will continue regardless of whether needles are sterilized to prevent AIDS. Dave Johnson, the city's AIDS policy and program coordinator, estimated that 7 percent of intravenous drug users in Los Angeles County carry the virus that causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome. The City Administrative Office said the $25,000 will pay for 50,000 to 62,000 bleach and condom kits. City officials said they had no way of estimating how many intravenous drug users would use the kits.
AP880524-0279 	X	Japan reported Tuesday its net overseas assets soared to a record of about $240 billion in 1987, making it the world's largest creditor nation for the third year in a row. Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the figure was up 33.5 percent from 1986, when Japan's external assets totaled a then-record $180.4 billion. He presented an annual report to the Cabinet Tuesday that said Japan's governmental and private assets abroad at the end of 1987 totaled $1.07 trillion, up 47.3 percent from a year earlier, while liabilities surged 51.9 percent to $830.8 billion. That left Japan with net external assets of about $240 billion. Japan surpassed Britain and other industrialized nations in terms of net external assets in 1985, with a total of $129.8 billion. A Finance Ministry spokesman, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Tuesday the sharp increase came from active investment in U.S. and other foreign securities by Japanese financial institutions and corporate and private investors. The external assets also include private and government loans, trade credits and the diversion of part of Japan's huge trade surplus, which totaled $76 billion last year, to foreign securities acquisitions.
AP880818-0120 	X	Thousands of people rallied today in Burma's two largest cities to demand an end to authoritarian rule, diplomats said, and the government prepared to choose a replacement for the nation's ousted leader. An Asian diplomat in the capital of Rangoon cited reports that 100,000 people, including students and Buddhist monks, marched along the streets of Mandalay, the nation's second-largest city, 350 miles north of Rangoon. According to 1984 figures, Mandalay is a city of 600,000 people. A Western diplomat in Rangoon said at least 1,000 protesters were present at the start of a demonstration in front of Rangoon General Hospital. It was the third straight day of demonstrations in Burma's capital. Japan's Kyodo News Service, reporting from Rangoon, later put the number of Rangoon protesters at 15,000. It also said thousands rallied in Mandalay. Security forces made no attempt to interfere with the peaceful protests in both cities, said the diplomats, speaking on condition of anonymity. Kyodo said soldiers armed with bazookas were seen in parts of Rangoon, along with tanks and armored personnel carriers. Meanwhile, accusations mounted that Rangoon's security forces shot unarmed civilians last week during massive anti-government riots. Estimates of those killed range from 95 to more than 3,000. Security forces allegedly shot doctors and nurses outside the hospital during the rioting, which ended the 17-day rule of hard-line President Sein Lwin. Sein Lwin resigned last Friday as state president and chairman of the Burma Socialist Program Party after five days of massive protests. He had replaced Ne Win, who resigned last month after 26 years of authoritarian rule. Diplomats, speaking on condition of anonymity, cited reports that the party's central committee of the Burma Socialist Program Party has been meeting daily since Sein Lwin's ouster to prepare for an emergency party session Friday, presumably to choose a new chairman. The legislature also is to hold an emergency session the same day, presumably to name a new president. The state-run Radio Rangoon said 52 people arrested in last week's rioting were freed today, including 43 students. According to official reports, 155 people had been released in Rangoon since Tuesday. Several prominent figures arrested July 29-30 still are being held. They include the country's leading dissident, Aung Gyi. Sein Win, the Burmese correspondent of The Associated Press, also remains in custody. U.S. State Department officials and a number of Rangoon diplomats say they can at best estimate the number of dead nationwide as ``in the hundreds'' given the limited movement of diplomats last week in Rangoon and elsewhere. Dozens of tourists and some journalists witnessed the mass demonstrations last week in Rangoon, but they returned with vague accounts of killings. Only one photograph of a corpse was seen in Bangkok. One senior Western diplomat told newsmen that a grisly ``battle of the bodies'' accounted in part for the lack of information about numbers killed. ``When someone is killed, (the protesters) try to get it so they can display the bodies and government tries to get it to cremate it,'' he said. After demonstrations in March, diplomats learned that the bodies of a number of young protesters gunned down by police had been taken swiftly to a cremation ground and burned. Bertil Lintner, a Swedish journalist and Burma scholar, says 3,000 persons were killed in Rangoon alone, including 600 who died at the Rangoon General Hospital. He was not in Rangoon last week, but cited witnesses to the demonstrations he later interviewed by telephone from Bangkok.
AP900324-0192 	X	Two Michigan businessmen and three companies they control pleaded innocent Friday to charges they bilked a Scott Paper Co. mill out of up to $1 million by bribing an engineer and putting his wife on their payroll. Federal prosecutors say Gerald M. Chernow, 49, and William M. Engelman, 52, cheated the S.D. Warren mill in Westbrook by persuading maintenance engineer David Hilt to buy unneeded maintenance and roofing equipment that was marked up by up to 20 times its cost. Initially, Hilt was given merchandise, gift certificates and money orders, and later, his wife, Ellen, was put on the payroll of one of the Michigan companies, First Assistant U.S. Attorney Jack Gleason said. Chernow and Engelman, both of Bloomfield Hills, Mich., entered innocent pleas before U.S. Magistrate David Cohen. Chernow and Engelman were freed on their own recognizance, but they must hand over their passports and will be required to pay $50,000 bond if they fail to show up to any court proceedings, Gleason said. The two businessmen had appeared in court without being arrested. The two are charged with conspiracy, mail fraud and the use of interstate facilities in furtherance of private bribery. Both businessmen declined to comment on the case, as did defense attorney Julian Sweet of Lewiston. Also named as defendants in the 21-count indictment are Modern Research Corp. and Lincoln Technical Services Inc., both of Troy, Mich., and ABC Chemical Co. of Detroit. If Chernow and Engelman are convicted on all counts, they face up to 105 years in prison and fines totaling $5.25 million each, the prosecutor said. Modern Research and Lincoln Technical Service each face up to $10.5 million in fines, while ABC Chemical could face $6.5 million in fines. Philadelphia-based Scott Paper lost between $750,000 and $1 million in the scheme, the government says.
AP900618-0021 	X	Late this week, budget talks between the Bush administration and Congress should evolve from preliminary, technical discussions into hard bargaining with election-year politics and billions of dollars at stake. But none of the participants pretends to know what will happen. ``I wouldn't hazard a guess,'' said one, Senate Budget Committee Chairman James Sasser, D-Tenn. ``These things can go on for so long, and then suddenly as if by magic you seem to reach a critical mass and then there's an agreement.'' After five weeks and eight private sessions, the Democratic and Republican sides agree that somewhere between $45 billion and $60 billion in new taxes and spending cuts are needed for fiscal 1991, which starts Oct. 1. Unless some deal is worked out by that date, the Gramm-Rudman deficit-reduction law will force tens of billions of dollars worth of spending cuts, an amount both parties say is intolerable. Yet neither side is eager to be the first to lay a plan on the bargaining table at sessions continuing this week, and risk being accused of championing something that the voters might find dreadful. Among the battlegrounds: will Democrats have to swallow cuts in some of their favorite social programs? And will President Bush's campaign mantra of ``No new taxes'' become obsolete? Democrats say the bargaining can only begin with a concrete offer from Bush, who called for the talks early last month. ``I thought implicitly at the beginning that the administration would present a proposal here,'' Sasser said last week. But Republicans say there is no need for the White House to lay down a proposal, and it has no plans to do so. If Democrats continue to insist that Bush present a budget proposal, ``It would be clear at that point that the Democrats don't intend to work out an agreement,'' said a GOP bargainer, Sen. Phil Gramm of Texas. Rep. Bill Frenzel of Minnesota, a Republican negotiator who will retire from Congress this winter, said he might be willing to push a plan forward if no one else will. ``If they need a fall guy, and it's said that lame ducks are good at that kind of stuff, I wouldn't mind being put in that position,'' he said. But that's not likely to satisfy Democrats. ``We're not interested in hearing from Republican legislative members,'' said Sasser. ``That's not what it's all about. This is a negotiation between the executive and legislative branches.'' Contributing to the unpredictability of the talks is the schizophrenic outlooks of the Democratic and Republican teams. Each side has pragmatists like White House budget director Richard Darman and House Budget Committee Chairman Leon Panetta, D-Calif. They seem above all to want a deal that once and for all takes a bite out of the federal deficit, which some project could exceed $200 billion next year. But the two teams also have highly partisan members, such as Sasser and White House chief of staff John Sununu, who seem leery of agreeing to anything that might provide a campaign advantage to the other party. Bargainers say the litmus test for the talks will be whether they have accomplished anything by the start of Congress' July 4 recess. They argue that agreement is needed by around then for lawmakers to have time this year to enact a deficit-reduction package. ``Everyone feels that if we work day to day until then, we ought to be either well on our way to putting an agreement together or be pretty much facing a task that's harder than everybody thought,'' said Panetta.
AP881005-0259 	X	In 1969, like thousands of other bright, young Indian professionals, Naresh Trehan went abroad to further his education. In less than two decades, he was one of the top heart surgeons in New York City with an income of $1.5 million a year, an apartment on Fifth Avenue, a beach-front house on Long Island and two cars in the garage. He wanted to come home, to bring his wife and two children back to their own country, but his professional achievements and aspirations had reached too high. During exploratory trips back to India, he found no place where he was willing to work. So he set out to fulfill a new dream: a world-class heart hospital in India, equipped with state-of-the-art computers and staffed with Indians who had set career goals their country could not accommodate. His Indian dream became a reality when the 170-bed Escorts Heart Institute and Research Center opened in New Delhi in mid-September. ``It's like climbing a new mountain,'' the 42-year-old Trehan said. ``It's a passion for me to come back and train others.'' In New York, Trehan performed heart bypass operations and heart transplants. He was director of cardiovascular surgery at the Manhattan Veterans Administration Hospital, and he remains an assistant professor of surgery at New York University. Some years at least 10 percent of his patients were fellow Indians. Trehan reasoned that wealthy Indians who go abroad for heart surgery would pay comparable prices for the same quality of treatment at home _ while saving the cost of air fare and the hassle of travel. Their fees would help offset free or subsidized treatment for others. Trehan enlisted a wealthy industrial family to help bankroll the new hospital, whose start-up cost was budgeted at $20 million and, according to Trehan, will probably rise. News of the project spread by word of mouth among Indian doctors working in the United States and Western Europe. ``I was always thinking that we could do it here,'' said Dr. Sunil Sharma, who quit a job at George Washington University Hospital in Washington, D.C., to become the Escorts center's chief bacteriologist and infection control officer. Sharma, 33, declined to disclose present salary but said it is about one-tenth of what he made in Washington. The main attraction, he said, was the chance to live and work among his own people. ``The standard of living is so high abroad, but we are more emotionally attached to our patients here,'' Sharma said. ``In the States, everybody is afraid of malpractice (suits), but here we treat from the core of our hearts.'' Of the 30 doctors now on staff at Escorts, 12 have returned from abroad. There were more mundane problems to deal with in establishing the new heart center. ``This hospital is going to be 100 percent fly-proof,'' Trehan declared as he strode across the polished-stone lobby to the front door where a powerful downdraft of air from the ceiling thwarts entry of flies and mosquitos. Flies seem to be a standard part of hospital life in India, along with families who camp in the courtyards and hallways, cook meals and try to keep track of a noisy assortment of half-naked children. At J.P. Narain Hospital, one of New Delhi's largest, it is possible to walk in off the street and wander through corridors and wards without being questioned. People lie on the floors, and barefoot women in tattered saris flail the hallways with twig brooms that stir up dust without sweeping it away. At the Escorts center, security guards check visitors for passes. ``We are training our staff to a totally different level,'' Trehan said. ``And for the first time, we have introduced a housekeeping service similar to that in hotels.'' A formula was reached with the government under which 40 percent of all outpatients and 10 percent of all inpatients would be treated free of charge. About 25 percent of the rest would be given subsidized rates, while the rest would pay full costs. Trehan, as the center's executive director, will still perform surgery and plans to work for free if patients can't afford his bill. The other doctors had to agree to do the same. One of the hospital's first patients was Santosh Rani Arora, a 46-year-old widow. A bout with rheumatic fever 22 years ago left her with a severe aortic disease that causes her heart valves to leak. Surgery in 1970 and 1983 failed to solve the problem, according to her sons Sunil and Anil, both government civil servants. The sons expressed concern about being able to afford Escorts' charges, but Trehan told them they could pay $352 for an angiography test that normally would cost about $463. Later, when the family had left, Trehan said he expected to perform surgery on Mrs. Arora. ``I can forgo my fee,'' he said. ``I expect that we can help them out with the rest, and they can come up with whatever they can so we can recover the cost of some of the consumables (supplies and medicine).''
AP900730-0141 	X	A federal judge ordered the Justice Department to index FBI documents on its investigation of Jimmy Hoffa's disappearance 15 years ago Monday, a ruling the former Teamsters leader's family hailed as a victory. U.S. District Judge Stephen Limbaugh ordered the government to prepare within 30 days an itemized list off all documents related to a freedom of information request by the family. The government must provide a detailed justification for any documents it wants exempted, Limbaugh ruled. ``Our family is extremely grateful. Fifteen years have gone by without them telling us what they know,'' said attorney Barbara Crancer, who sued the government for files on her father's case in February 1989. ``We've waited so long to hear something,'' she said. Crancer said it was ``pretty ironic'' the ruling Friday came just before the 15th anniversary of Hoffa's July 30, 1975, disappearance. ``I don't think the judge planned it that way,'' she said. Calls seeking comment from FBI spokesman John Anthony and Justice Department attorney Henry Fredericks were not immediately returned. Hoffa, 62, vanished from a restaurant parking lot in the Detroit suburb of Bloomfield Township. Federal investigators have said they believe he was murdered but couldn't release their files because their probe was continuing. Hoffa built Detroit's Local 299, a tiny Teamsters unit, into a 15,000-member local, and became president of the international union. In 1958, he was hauled before the U.S. Senate rackets committee and accused of running a ``hoodlum empire.'' Nine years later, Hoffa was convicted of jury tampering and fraud involving the Teamsters Central Pension Fund and received a five-year federal prison term. Under a sentence commutation he received from President Nixon in 1971, Hoffa was barred from returning to office in the Teamsters until 1980. When Hoffa vanished, he was contesting that provision in court. His son, Detroit attorney Jimmy P. Hoffa has said he thinks his father was killed because he was trying to return to union power.
AP900208-0207 	X	Walt Disney Co. announced Thursday it will prohibit paid screen advertising in all movie theaters showing the company's films. The policy will begin in March with Disney's release of the film ``Pretty Woman.'' ``Our patrons don't dislike screen advertising, they hate it,'' said Richard Cook, president of Disney's Buena Vista Pictures Distribution. Audiences, he said, ``do not come to experience the mundane. They come to escape it. We must not so insult our paying guests (with commercials) and we won't.'' Disney plans to enforce the anti-ad policy by revoking a theater's license to show Disney movies if it shows advertisements. Cook said the action was essential to the continued financial health of the exhibition of motion pictures in movie theaters. ``We have been told repeatedly by moviegoers that they do not want and will not tolerate commercial intrusions in movie theaters,'' Cook said in remarks given at the 1990 convention of the National Association of Theater Owners. The Disney announcement was greeted by some groans. A number of theater owners depend on paid advertising to generate extra income. Terry Laughren, president of Screenvision Cinema Network, the nation's leading cinema advertising company, said such advertisements bring theater owners millions of dollars annually. ``It's real money. It's not pocket change,'' said Laughren, whose company has placed ads in about 35 percent of the nation's 17,500 first-run movie theaters. Cook said Disney won't demand that theaters break existing contracts with advertisers, but the company will encourage the theater owners to get out of such contracts. Disney defines screen advertisements as commercials for goods and services projected on the screen in the same theater where Disney films are shown. Previews of upcoming attractions, slides projected for products during intermission and approved charitable advertisements are not affected by the ban, Disney said.
AP880909-0203 	X	Like other frequent fliers, pilots suffer the effects of jet lag and sleep loss from flight delays, late arrivals and crossing time zones. For them, however, the consequences are potentially disastrous. The second story of a three-part AP Extra series, ``6 Miles Up and Sleepy,'' describes the growing medical evidence showing how fatigue and disruption of the body's biological clock upset performance in the cockpit.
AP880701-0111 	X	Four people were killed and 27 injured in a collision between a bus, truck and taxi near Havana, the third serious bus wreck reported in Cuba in the past week, Cuba's state-run radio said today. A Radio Rebelde broadcast monitored in Miami today did not disclose when the three-way accident occurred or what caused it. The report said 15 of the injured victims were in serious condition. In a June 25 accident, a train and bus collided near Havana, killing at least 27 people, most of them teens, and injuring about 80 other people, a broadcast said. The day before, Cuban radio reported that 10 people died and 21 were injured when a bus and tractor-trailer collided along Cuba's main highway after the bus driver was blinded by lights of oncoming traffic.
AP900213-0059 	X	Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher is proposing a big-power conference with the two Germanys to work out a framework for German reunification, government sources said today. She wants the United States, Soviet Union, Britain and France _ the original occupiers of Germany after World War II _ to meet at foreign-minister level with representatives of East and West Germany, said the sources at her Downing Street headquarters. They spoke on condition they not be identified. Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd drew up a detailed proposal and discussed it with Britain's allies at this week's East-West ``Open Skies'' conference in Canada of 23 nations, the sources said. The proposal is expected to be amplified when Mrs. Thatcher meets Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher of West Germany in London on Wednesday. Genscher asked for the meeting, the sources said. They said no date was being set for the conference, but it was hoped it would take place soon after East Germany's March 18 elections. Any formulas agreed upon would then be presented to the 35-nation Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. Mrs. Thatcher's proposal is seen as a response to critics who accuse her of seeking to slow the momentum toward reunification. The British leader has not disguised her concern that hasty moves could undermine European security. On Saturday, at a meeting of her Conservative Party, Mrs. Thatcher stressed that the 1975 Helsinki agreement stipulated that ``no boundaries would be changed except by agreement.'' ``So if any boundaries are to be changed, this requires massive consultation between us,'' she said. ``All this means the changes they are having now in Germany and moves towards unification must be done in accord with the other obligations to which we signed up.'' The Daily Mail, which first carried the report today, said the conference could produce an agreement ``tantamount to a German peace treaty.'' No peace treaty was signed after World War II, and although the United States, Britain and France renounced their status as occupiers in 1955, they retain authority in Berlin and maintain armies in West Germany. The Daily Mail said Mrs. Thatcher's proposal was a way of saying: ``Let's be practical and settle the complex problems at the conference table rather than through demonstrations in the streets.''
AP900122-0045 	X	Drug and alcohol tests were administered to 18 staff and school board members at Homewood-Flossmoor High School, and now it is the student athletes' turn. A lottery will select 15 athletes a week, starting this week, to be tested for alcohol and 10 drugs. Two of the samples will be checked for steroids. During the semester a total of 277 athletes will undergo screening in the school district south of Chicago. Football coach John Wrenn said the program already is working. ``Through the grapevine I've heard that some students have gotten help,'' Wrenn said. ``That's what this program is for, not to punish kids, but to get them help.'' Athletic director Ken Schultz submitted the first urine specimen Friday followed by the principal, Charles Smith, and 16 other administrators and school board members. The testing will cost $40,000 to $50,000, school officials said. It will be paid for through donations and increased ticket prices for football and basketball games. Athletes who fail the test will be evaluated by a drug conselor and will be suspended from school for 30 days if considered chemically dependent. They will be reinstated if they follow a treatment plan and pass a new test, but could be suspended for up to a year if they fail the follow-up test.
AP900329-0111 	X	A judge has ruled that Jesus Christ was innocent of the charges that sent him to his death at the hands of Roman authorities in Galilee two millennia ago, a newspaper in this southern city reported Thursday. Judge Eduardo Rodriguez told the Ideal newspaper the idea to symbolically overturn Christ's conviction on charges of political rebellion came to him while he was preparing a prayer for traditional Passion Week ceremonies. ``I consider myself almost a blasphemer because I'm nobody to judge Christ,'' the daily quoted him as saying. ``But my intention was to give Jesus of Nazareth a just sentence and teach a lesson to those who judged him.'' Jesus of Nazareth was crucified under Roman law around the year 30 after being condemned as a political rebel. ``If that trial had been held with all the due guarantees, he would have been absolved, among other reasons, because nobody was defending him _ he only had accusers,'' Rodriguez said. He used Biblical texts to prepare the case and concluded his ruling by asking Jesus for forgiveness.
AP880611-0093 	X	Investigators tried Saturday to piece together what happened to a free-lance gemologist between her disappearance in February while carrying more than $500,000 in diamonds and her death less than a month ago. An autopsy on Barbara Mangiameli, 33, whose naked body was found Thursday floating in the Hudson River near lower Manhattan, showed that she died within the last month of a beating to the head. She was last seen at her Manhattan apartment building the day she was supposed to return six diamonds worth between $500,000 and $600,000 to their owner after a proposed sale fell through. Two brothers who allegedly arranged a meeting between a potential buyer and Ms. Mangiameli are in federal custody on charges they pawned one of the missing diamonds in Florida. They are not suspected in the murder because they have been in custody since April, and Ms. Mangiameli was then alive according to the autopsy. Ms. Mangiameli's body was covered by plastic bags and was bound in the fetal position by a Venetian blind cord around the neck, wrists and ankles, police said. An autopsy Friday found she died from multiple blunt force injuries to the scalp and face that caused skull fractures, brain contusions and brain hemorrhaging, said Ellen Borakove, a spokeswoman for the medical examiner's office. She was identified through dental records and an appendectomy scar, Ms. Borakove said. ``According to the doctor who did the case, she wasn't in the water for very long,'' Ms. Borakove said. ``She was not dead for a very long period of time from the time they found her yesterday. It certainly is not months. Whether it's weeks or days, I cannot pin it down.'' Ms. Mangiameli had worked for 10 years in advertising and two years ago went into the gem business. She recently graduated from the Gemological Institute of America Inc.
AP881025-0230 	X	There is no Economy Rdp planned for this cycle. The AP
AP880630-0006 	X	One new poll suggests Vice President George Bush is running neck-and-neck with Gov. Michael Dukakis, while another survey indicates the Republican nominee-to-be is only slightly behind his Democratic rival. The new results contrast with a series of surveys in recent weeks indicating Bush trailed Dukakis in double digits. A telephone survey of 1,013 adults last week by ABC News and Money Magazine, released Wednesday, found 45 percent support for Dukakis and 42 percent for Bush. That amounts to a tie, given the margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage points. And a Gallup poll of 1,210 voters, also out Wednesday, suggested Dukakis had the support of 46 percent, to 41 percent for Bush. The margin of error was 3 percentage points. By contrast, Gallup, NBC News-Wall Street Journal and Washington Post polls conducted since June 9 have found double-digit leads for Dukakis. The Post survey, done June 15-19, found a 51-39 percent Dukakis margin. The ABC-Money Magazine poll, conducted June 22-25, found support for Dukakis down 7 points from an ABC-Post poll in mid-May that used the same methodology. Bush rose only from 41 to 42 percent support; those who didn't know grew from 2 percent to 6 percent. The rest said they wouldn't vote or would support someone else. Poll analysts have said they expected the race to tighten as Dukakis came off the crest of his Democratic primary victories. A Harris survey early this month found a dead heat _ 49-44, with a 3-point margin of error _ and a USA Today-CNN poll gave Dukakis a single-digit lead. The ABC-Money Magazine poll had Dukakis leading among women, respondents earning less than $25,000 a year and adults aged 35 to 54. Bush led among men, respondents earning more than $50,000 and those in the 55-64 age group.
AP880420-0338 	X	First Interstate Bancorp, one of the nation's largest banking concerns, on Wednesday reported a 27 percent rise in its first quarter profit over a year ago, when the company battled troubled domestic and Third World loans. Net income for the three months ended March 31 totaled $102.6 million, or $2.20 a share, compared with earnings of $80.5 million, or $1.69 a share. Chairman J.J. Pinola said First Interstate decided last year to increase its loan-loss reserves, and that contributed to the improvement this year. First Interstate posted a loss of $556.2 million for fiscal 1987 because of writeoffs and an addition to its loan-loss provision. Allowances for loan losses at the end of the first quarter stood at $1.39 billion, up from $542 million a year ago. However, during the quarter the copmany reduced its provision for loan losses to $76.4 million from $99.5 million. Net loans charged off were $108.9 million, compared with $92.9 million, First Interstate said. The company said its writeoff fund increased due to its January acquisition of Houston-based Allied Bancshares in a complex stock swap worth between $415 million to $450 million. Allied held a number of distressed properties in Texas, which has been hit by an oil industry slump. First Interstate has taken steps to shed those properties. First Interstate said net interest income rose by 8.7 percent during the quarter while non-interest income was up 4.2 percent.
AP900403-0025 	X	Americans are smoking less than any time since 1942. The Agriculture Department says cigarette use dropped 5 percent in 1989, the largest decline in six years. And the trend is expected to continue. Overall, American smokers consumed about 533 billion cigarettes last year, the department's Economic Research Service said Monday. Exports, however, jumped 20 percent to 142 billion cigarettes. Annual use by the U.S. adult population dropped 7 percent to an average of 2,888 cigarettes, the report said. Economist Verner Grise said that was the lowest average since 1942, when the average was 2,585 cigarettes per adult. The peak was 4,345 cigarettes in 1963, before beginning its longtime decline. The average is for all Americans 18 years and older, smokers and non-smokers alike. It is a statistical comparison only and does not indicate the actual smoking habits of the population. ``Domestic cigarette consumption will probably continue to fall this year because of higher prices, increased restrictions on where people can smoke, anti-smoking activity and declining social acceptance of smoking,'' the report said. Meanwhile, the report said total U.S. tobacco output could increase substantially this year, perhaps by 8 percent over the 1989 crop of 1.4 billion pounds. However, smaller on-hand inventories will reduce total supplies for 1990-91.
AP900912-0206 	X	A Columbus, Ohio, stock brokerage and its president, accused of numerous fraud schemes, were expelled from the National Association of Securities Dealers Wednesday and fined a total of $250,000. Without admitting or denying any wrongdoing, Corna and Co., Inc. and its owner and president, David A. Corna, agreed to the disciplinary action as part of a settlement with the NASD, a self-regulating organization empowered by Congress to oversee the over-the-counter securities market. The firm and Corna were accused of parking securities and making unauthorized trades in clients' accounts ``on hundreds of occasions between 1985 and 1989,'' playing fast and loose with its records _ including creating two bogus customer accounts _ falsifying documents, and not cooperating with an NASD investigation. Parking is an illegal scheme to conceal the true ownership of securities by buying them with the understanding that the original owner will buy them back with no loss to the person they were ``parked'' with. The NASD's Cleveland Business Conduct Committee said ``the conduct at issue represents some of the most serious violations of the federal securities laws and the rules of the Association that can be a committed by a member. ...'' The disciplinary committee also accused Corna of forging the signatures of several customers and former employees. The firm was censured, expelled from membership in the NASD and fined $100,000. Corna also was censured, barred from associating with any NASD member in any capacity and fined $150,000.
AP881103-0054 	X	The Duchess of York returned to London today after six weeks in Australia, carrying a toy koala bear as a present for the 12-week-old baby girl she left behind in Britain. The 29-year-old duchess arrived at London's Heathrow Airport with a white fluffy toy bear under her arm. She smiled at waiting photographers but said nothing before she got into her Jaguar car and took the wheel to drive into London. The baby, Princess Beatrice, stayed in Britain with a nanny while the duchess, the former Sarah Ferguson, was in Australia with her husband, Prince Andrew, second oldest son of Queen Elizabeth II. Andrew, 28, a Royal Navy helicopter pilot, will remain with his ship, the guided-missile destroyer HMS Edinburgh, and is not expected back in Britain until Dec. 16. The couple had a narrow escape from serious injury Wednesday in Fremantle, western Australia, when a steel cable securing the Edinburgh to the dock snapped as they were saying goodbye. The duchess _ on the dock chatting with Andrew, who was on the lower deck of the ship _ was whisked to safety by a security man who saw the cable about to snap less than three yards from where she stood. Andrew and other crew members ducked for cover as the cable lashed back like a whip and smashed into the ship's hull. The duchess flew from Britain to Australia on Sept. 21 on her own and met up with Andrew there for the couple's 10-day official tour to help celebrate Australia's bicentennial. When Andrew returned to his ship, the duchess extended her stay in Australia to have more time with him, traveling from port to port to meet his ship. She also visited relatives in Australia and the British domestic news agency Press Association said she comforted her elder sister Jane over the reported breakup of her marriage with Australian farmer Alex Makim. British tabloids criticized the duchess for spending so much time away from her baby, who was born on Aug. 8. The duchess and Andrew shrugged off the criticism and Buckingham Palace, as is customary, refused to comment on the issue.
AP880520-0103 	X	Former Temptations lead singer David Ruffin has been found guilty of using cocaine after being jailed for failing to appear at his trial. Detroit Recorder's Court Judge John O'Brien ruled Thursday there wasn't enough evidence to convict Ruffin of a cocaine possession charge, but did find him guilty of using the drug. Ruffin faces up to a year in jail at his sentencing, scheduled for May 31. The singer was being held in Wayne County Jail pending a hearing on his failure to appear earlier this week. He failed to appear for court dates Monday and Tuesday morning and was arrested on a bench warrant when he showed up in Recorder's Court late Tuesday. Ruffin, 47, originally was charged with possessing a trace of cocaine after a July 28, 1987, raid on a friend's home. A co-defendant testified that he and Ruffin were among seven people who pitched in to buy 42 grams of crack cocaine. Ruffin, who lives near Detroit in South Lyon, said he went to the house to find a friend, not to buy drugs. But he admitted Thursday that he had used cocaine recently after O'Brien threatened to force him to take a drug test. Ruffin, who turned down an offer to plead guilty to a lesser charge, sang with the Temptations, a top Motown group, from 1963 to 1968. He has recently been performing with another former Temptation, Eddie Kendricks.
AP901126-0232 	X	The spot month contract for light sweet crude was $33.70 per barrel at 12 p.m. Monday on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
AP900904-0041 	X	Eight teen-agers accused of stealing to get night club admission money were charged in the subway slaying of a Utah tourist who came to the aid of his mother when she was punched in the face, police said. Five were picked up for questioning at the Roseland Ballroom after the fatal attack Sunday night, Capt. Steve Davis said. The other three were arrested Monday. Killed was Brian Watkins, 22, of Provo, Utah. The former college tennis player was in town with his family for the U.S. Open tournament. He was stabbed once in the chest after intervening when his mother was punched. He collapsed on the subway platform at 53rd Street and Seventh Avenue after starting to chase the fleeing thieves, Davis said. ``Brian jumped in to help me when one of the muggers hit me in the face,'' Karen Watkins said. She was treated for a mouth cut. The slaying reinforced New York's image as a hotbed of urban crime. It was the 18th killing in the city's subways this year. In Watkins' hometown, one homicide was recorded for all of 1989, Provo police records secretary Bobbie Ferguson said. The Watkins family, tennis fans who have visited New York for the past five years to see the U.S. Open, had spent Sunday at the tournament and were on their way to dinner when they were attacked. Their hotel is near the subway station where Watkins was stabbed and the Central Park restaurant they were headed for is located just two subway stops away. Watkins was waiting for a northbound train with his father, Sherwin, his mother, his brother Todd and Todd's wife Michelle, when a group of young men approached, one carrying a knife, another wielding a box cutter. Sherwin Watkins' pants were slashed and thieves took a money clip containing about $200 and some credit cards. One punched Mrs. Watkins in the face. The brothers interceded and one of the men stabbed Watkins, police said. He died later at a nearby hospital. Watkins' father was treated for a leg cut. The dance club is less than a block from the subway station where Watkins was stabbed. Davis said ``most kids who get off at that stop are going to Roseland,'' and that it was ``logical'' to investigate there. Debbie Jaspering, a family friend, said she'd seen the Watkins family at the tennis tournament several days ago, before she returned to Provo. ``They were having a great time,'' Jaspering said. ``They were sitting with the family of Brad Pearce,'' a touring pro from Provo who lost in the first round of the Open. ``My sister and I had been nervous, you know, two women alone in the city,'' she said. ``And this happens to the Watkins, with three men there. It's crazy.'' Manhattan detective Chief Joseph DeMartino said police recovered several weapons, including a cardboard cutter and a folding ``butterfly knife'' believed to be the weapon used to kill Watkins. The motive of the crime was to get money for admission into the night club, DeMartino said. Arrested was Yull Garry Morales, 18, of Queens, who police said stabbed Watkins. Also arrested and booked for investigation of murder and robbery were: Johnnie Hincaipe, Anthony Andersen, Louis Fernando Montiero, Ricardo Lopez, Emiliano Fernandez, all of Queens; Pascual Carpenter, of Long Island and Ricardo Nova, address unknown. All are 18.
AP881129-0112 	X	President Mikhail S. Gorbachev bowed to criticism of his constitutional reforms Tuesday, saying he will accept tighter limits on presidential power and try to accommodate republics clamoring for more autonomy. Gorbachev, acknowledging the political give-and-take forming in the freer atmosphere he has fostered, told the Supreme Soviet, or parliament: ``Our own socialist system of `checks and balances' is taking shape in this country, designed to protect society from any violations of socialist legality at the highest state level.'' The Supreme Soviet is considering during its three-day session a package of almost 120 articles of legislation first published five weeks ago that Gorbachev says are the first major step toward a political system based on law, not central dictate. But the draft laws faced stiff criticism that they actually stengthen the presidency, which Gorbachev assumed on Oct. 1, against the legislature, and strengthen Moscow's power against that of the 15 Soviet republics. The unprecedented criticism of the proposed legislation was highlighted by the Estonian republic's Nov. 16 ``declaration of sovereignty'' over all internal affairs and demand to review all new Soviet legislation. Several Supreme Soviet deputies, including two top officials from the Baltic republics, registered dissatisfaction Tuesday with elements of the reform. Arnold Ruutel, the Estonian president, told reporters that Surpreme Soviet deputies only received copies of the amended proposals on Tuesday. They have not been published. But Gorbachev, detailing some of the changes to the 1,500 Supreme Soviet members, said, ``It is obvious that some of the provisions of the bills were not formulated precisely enough and cuased quite a few critical remarks in the course of discussions.'' ``The draft now gives the U.S.S.R. Supreme Soviet the right to repeal decrees and decisions by its Presidium, and orders by the Supreme Soviet president,'' Gorbachev said. That was implied in the Soviet Constitution, which requires Supreme Soviet confirmation of directives of the Presidium, the highest executive body on which Gorbachev serves as chairman. But the Supreme Soviet almost never has challenged any such directive, and the proposed constitutional amendments said nothing about Supreme Soviet review. Gorbachev's reforms call for the formation next year of a Congress of People's Deputies, a 2,250-member legislative body that will include representation from the Communist Party, trade and creative unions, and social organizations as well as geographical legislative districts. The Congress will choose a smaller Supreme Soviet, which is to become more active. He said the Congress would have power to recall any official it appoints, including the president. The Supreme Soviet would have the powers of budget oversight and review of the actions of government ministries. ``This right will definitely be used regularly in the new conditions,'' he said. It was not immediately clear whether Gorbachev was giving up his proposal to strengthen the president by giving his the chairmanship of the Defense Council and responsibility for foreign policy. In order to further strengthen the system of checks and balances, Gorbachev said a constitutional review commission would be formed, and that judges would be given considerably more independence. To meet complaints from small republics the amendments now give all 15 republics stronger representation in one house of the Supreme Soviet, the Soviet of Nationalities. Gorbachev, who led the Presidium on Saturday in rejecting Estonia's challenge, stressed the economic unity of the Soviet Union. But a specific criticism of Estonia originally included in a summary of Gorbachev's remarks distributed by the Tass news agency did not appear in the final version, and he struck a conciliatory note. Gorbachev proposed creating a special commission to settle the question of division of powers between the central government and the republics. Soviet Vice President Anatoly Lukyanov, in a news conference, told reporters that a section allowing central authorities to declare a state of emergency and call in soldiers to keep order had been amended to assure the republics any such operation would be temporary, and that they would be consulted. ``We are not approaching the constitution and the republics as something that has been set once and forever. There will be changes and amendments,'' he said. But leaders of two Baltic republics still objected. Latvian President Anatoly Gorbunov said direct representation of social and political organizations in the Congress of People's Deputies could result in one person holding several seats in the the congress. Another Baltic republic president, Vitautas Astrauskas of Lithuania, called for a new constitution limiting the central government to national issues. Gorbachev's ideology chief, Vadim A. Medvedev told a news conference that he believed the Estonian measures were ``adopted spontaneously under public sentiment and emotion that for a certain time got the upper hand in the republic.'' ``I'm not inclined to agree they are an adequate reflection of public opinion in that republic,'' he said.
AP881011-0162 	X	Rain driven by gale-force winds brought heavy flooding Tuesday to southwestern England, leaving the center of this catherdral city of 14,000 people awash in 4 feet of water, police said. The downpour that began Monday night dumped more than 2 inches of rain in two hours on the Cornwall peninsula, said a spokesman for the Devon and Cornwall Constabulary who requested anonymity. Hardest hit was Truro, the administrative center of Cornwall, about 300 miles west of London. Shopkeepers were evacuated from the low-lying areas downtown as emergency workers sandbagged the perimeter of the area to prevent the rising water from spilling into residential neighborhoods, the spokesman said. Other flooded areas included the nearby villages of Carnon Downs, Feock, Devoran and St. Just-in-Roseland. Roads to the seaside resort of St. Agnes were cut off by floodwaters aggravated by rising tides, the spokesman said. Main roads into the Truro area lay under 6 feet of water in some places, the spokesman said, while the River Kenwyn near Truro appeared in danger of spilling its banks. About 50 families across the barren, rugged Cornish peninsula had been evacuated, the spokesman said. A spokesman for the London Weather Center said an Atlantic weather depression spawned the rains and accompanying 35-45 mph winds gusting up to 65 mph. The high winds stranded 400 people bound for Cork, Ireland, at the dock in Swansea, Wales, for 10 hours as the ferry Celtic Pride was forced to ride out the storm at anchor in Swansea Bay, the domestic news agency Press Association reported.
AP880927-0044 	X	The William Randolph Hearst Foundation will give $1.25 million to Lincoln Center, Metropolitan Opera Co., New York Philharmonic and Juilliard School. ``Our board felt that we had a real opportunity to make a mark on the future of the performing arts with these grants _ an act every bit as important as our traditional areas of support in health, medical research, education and the social services,'' Hearst Foundation President Randolph A. Hearst said Monday in announcing the grants. Lincoln Center's share will be $200,000 for its new building, which will house young artists and provide new public facilities. The Metropolitan Opera Co. and New York Philharmonic will receive $400,000 each. The Juilliard School, where music and the performing arts are taught, will get $250,000. The Hearst Foundation, a leading supporter of the Lincoln Center Consolidated Corporate Fund, will make its usual annual $100,000 donation, too.
AP900129-0140 	X	The government accused opponents Monday of attempting a coup and supporters rallied behind it, occupying the offices of one opposition party and forcing another's leader to flee in an armored car. More than 15,000 people rallied in Bucharest to support the self-appointed government that took over when Communist dictator Nicolae Ceausescu was deposed and executed last month. News media reported similar demonstrations in several other cities, but gave no details. On Sunday, about 15,000 people protested in the capital, demanding the resignation of the Council of the National Salvation Front, the name adopted by the government that is running the country until elections planned for May 20. After initially declaring its only purpose was to guide Romania through the immediate post-revolutionary period, the Front recently said it would enter candidates in the elections. That decision angered the fledgling opposition, which says the Front _ 150 intellectuals, technocrats and former Communists _ has an unfair advantage. Many opposition politicians have pointed to the Communist pasts of leading Front members and suggested it really is the Communist Party in disguise. As the thousands of pro-government demonstrators gathered Monday outside Front headquarters in Victory Square, three of Ceausescu's henchmen pleaded guilty in court to complicity in genocide. Former Interior Minister Tudor Postelnicu, former Central Committee secretary Emil Bobu, and former Politburo member Manea Manescu, along with Ion Dinca, a former Politburo member who pleaded guilty Saturday, admitted supporting Ceausescu's order to shoot demonstrators at the revolution's outset. About the Sunday protest, Front member Silviu Brucan said it was organized by the Peasants Party, which was a dominant presence in Parliament before World War II and is thought to be the strongest opposition party now. Brucan, a ranking Communist who fell out with Ceausescu after criticizing his dictatorial methods, told reporters the rally was an attempt to overthrow the Front. ``Their shock troops came close to the main entrance of the building,'' he said. ``The whole event amounted to a putsch, a coup d'etat.'' Peasants Party spokesman Ion Ratiu said of Brucan's allegations: ``The whole thing was turned around to justify their actions today.'' He spoke at a news conference called in the hotel room he has called home since returning last week from decades of self-exile in Britain. Ratiu, a wealthy shipbuilder and real estate investor, accused the Front of staging Monday's demonstrations. Many protesters arrived at Victory Square in buses and trucks. Another pro-government rally formed around the building that houses Peasants Party headquarters, about two miles from the Front building, and at the nearby Liberal Party headquarters. ``We won't leave until you dissolve the party!'' demonstrators chanted as they forced their way into Liberal headquarters. Peasants Party leader Corneliu Coposu was evacuated building by soldiers in an armored car. No injuries were reported at either headquarters. Brucan said three people suffered stab wounds to the back during Sunday's protest, but that none was in serious condition. Brucan denied Ratiu's claim that the Front staged and paid for the demonstrations Monday, but several people outside the Peasants Party building indirectly suggested they had been under pressure to demonstrate. They said they worked in state factories and had joined their bosses at the pro-government rallies. A woman who would not give her name claimed the Sunday demonstration also was less than spontaneous. ``They were given dollars, cigarettes and lei,'' she said, referring to the Romanian currency. Both days of demonstrations violated a ban the Front has put on rallies that lack advance authorization from the police. The Front has decreed that rallies should not take place during working hours, but made no attempt to disperse Monday's pro-government demonstration.
AP900606-0217 	X	Shining Path rebels exploded a car bomb on Wednesday near the Government Palace, the second to hit downtown Lima in 24 hours. Police said the attacks signaled a rebel offensive against Sunday's presidential elections. Police said the blast destroyed a small car parked behind Lima city hall and wounded one person. Hundreds of military police quickly swarmed through the area and sealed off the Plaza de Armas in front of the palace. In Lima's middle-class Jesus Maria neighborhood, four rebels with machine guns took over an electoral office, forced electoral workers outside and set the office ablaze. Firefighters said electoral workers' identification and most other documents were destroyed. The attack came four days before runoff presidential elections pitting novelist Mario Vargas Llosa against agricultural engineer Alberto Fujimori. The first car bomb exploded one block from the palace on Tuesday night, seriously wounding a passer-by. Rebels launched a wave of overnight violence around the capital. They blew up at least three high-tension power pylons, blacking out parts of the capital and other coastal cities where most of Peru's 22 million people live. Power was restored to most areas within a few hours. In pre-dawn attacks Wednesday, guerrillas threw gasoline bombs at a city bus and at a stove factory owned by a senator-elect of Fujimori's Change 90 party, police said. They planted a bomb in the doorway of a public high school along with a red flag with the hammer-and-sickle symbol of the Maoist-oriented Shining Path. Police defused the device before it exloded. Police said the attacks also may be in response to last week's discovery of an elegant house in a Lima suburb apparently used as the group's Lima headquarters. Police said the house may have been used as a hideout by Abimael Guzman, Shining Path's founder and leader. Police arrested 31 people in the raid last Friday and found personal possessions that appeared to belong to Guzman, who has not been seen in public in more than 10 years. More than 18,500 people have died in political violence since the Shining Path began its insurgency in May 1980.
AP880711-0233 	X	The dollar climbed to recent highs against several major currencies Monday in choppy domestic dealings after posting gains earlier in Europe despite concerted central bank intervention. Gold prices fell sharply. The dollar reached its highest point since last October against the British pound and West German mark. It reached its highest point since last August against the French franc and Italian lira. Led by West Germany's central Bundesbank, intervention began early in the European trading session. West Germany, which stepped in sporadically to sell dollars throughout last week, was accompanied by the central banks of Switzerland, Italy, the Netherlands, Austria, and Belgium, dealers in Europe said. The Federal Reserve also was believed to have sold dollars, but the U.S. currency continued to resist the downward pressure. ``It's a general feeling that U.S. interest rates are going higher and that there is progress in the trade deficit,'' one London trader said in explaining the dollar's apparent strength in the face of intervention. If the Federal Reserve pushes up interest rates to keep the economy from overheating, dollar securities would become more attractive to foreign investors. Earl Johnson, a vice president at Harris Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago, said the total amount of dollars sold during the interventions was rumored to be in the neighborhood of $1 billion, which he characterized as not particularly excessive considering the number of banks involved. Traders in New York said the market was buffeted throughout the session by mixed messages regarding the level of the U.S. currency. ``There were rumors to the effect that the Bundesbank is not looking for an appreciation of the mark, that the Bank of Japan and the (Fed) are happy with the level of the dollar,'' said John McCarthy, a vice president and trader at Irving Trust Co. But on the bearish side, McCarthy cited former White House economic adviser Martin Feldstein's prediction that the dollar would trade at 100 Japanese yen within three years. ``When you get these arbitrary statements, people get positioned badly and they bail out of the market,'' McCarthy said. ``It was a yo-yo day where people were caught both ways.'' Traders said they expected some skittishness in the market ahead of the government's release on Friday of the merchandise trade report for May. In Tokyo, where trading ends before Europe's business day begins, the dollar rose 1.36 yen to a closing 133.33 yen. Later, in London, it was quoted at the lower rate of 132.96 yen. In New York the dollar closed at 133.07 yen, down from 133.29 yen on Friday. The dollar appreciated against the British pound. In London, it cost $1.6900 to buy one pound, cheaper than Friday's $1.7015. In New York, one pound fetched $1.6925, less expensive than $1.6996 on Friday. Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Friday: 1.8423 West German marks, up from 1.8415; 1.5305 Swiss francs, down from 1.5325; 6.2065 French francs, up from 6.1945; 1,367.25 Italian lire, up from 1,364.50; and 1.2072 Canaidan dollars, down from 1.2091. Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Friday: 1.8460 West German marks, up from 1.8378; 1.5350 Swiss francs, up from 1.5295; 6.2080 French francs, up from 6.1820; 2.0750 Dutch guilders, up from 2.0605; 1,364.50 Italian lire, up from 1,355.50; and 1.2082 Canadian dollars, down from 1.2095. Gold prices fell in Europe after New York traders began selling platinum during the European afternoon. Dealers in Zurich said the downward slide appeared limited, and predicted that new buying would emerge. On New York's Commodity Exchange, gold closed at $434.60 a troy ounce, down from $439.10 on Friday. Republic National Bank of New York said gold was bid at $434.50 a troy ounce as of 4 p.m. EDT, down from $439 late Friday. In London, gold finished at a bid price of $435.10 a troy ounce, down from late Friday's $438.50, while in Zurich, the bid price was $435.50, down from $439.50 Friday. Earlier in Hong Kong, gold rose 96 cents to close at a bid $442.04. Silver on New York's Comex finished at $6.937 a troy ounce, down from $7 on Friday. In London the metal was quoted at a late bid price of $6.94 a troy ounce, down from Friday's $7.01.
AP901219-0079 	X	Japan's Cabinet will slow the growth of military spending under a new five-year defense plan, Defense Agency officials said today. Analysts say the new plan, which is to be approved Thursday, follows Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu's support of easing military spending in keeping with the collapse of Communism in Europe. Defense Agency officials and senior lawmakers of Kaifu's governing Liberal Democratic Party have opposed a sharp cut, contending the reduction in tensions has not yet extended to the Far East. Analysts say the new plan is only a provisional measure. Critics maintain that it does not go far enough in reducing Japan's defense spending. During the current $138 billion five-year plan, which ends in March, spending increases averaged 5.4 percent a year. The new plan envisions spending of $170.68 billion for 1991-1995, with an average annual increase of less than 3 percent, agency officials said today, speaking on condition of anonymity. The Defense Agency insists it needs at least $175.86 billion to meet 1976 guidelines stating that the Self-Defense Forces, Japan's military, should be capable of repulsing a ``limited, small-scale'' foreign attack. But Finance Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto insists the average annual growth of the defense budget should not exceed 3 percent, an agency official said. Japan also depends on a defense treaty with the United States, which in the past pressed this nation for bigger defense buildups. It now is seeking more Japanese funds to support the 50,000 U.S. troops based in Japan. A policy paper released by the National Security Council on Tuesday said, ``The world situation is heading in desirable directions...and the possibility of a large-scale military conflict is lessening.'' Last week, Kaifu said in Parliament that he planned to restore Japan's self-imposed defense spending ceiling of 1 percent of its gross national product. The 1 percent ceiling, imposed in 1976, was eliminated in 1987 by the administration of Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone, who actively promoted the strengthening and modernization of the Self-Defense Forces. The new plan has generated domestic criticism for not cutting defense spending more. ``The rest of the world, including the United States, is revising its security policies to respond to the new world order,'' said Kazuhisa Ogawa, a political analyst. ``But unfortunately, Japan is still sticking with the conventional stance of only seeing the Soviet Union as a potential enemy and following what the United States wants Japan to do,'' he said
AP880630-0239 	X	Scientists injected 2,200 corn stalks with a microbe effective against the destructive European corn borer Thursday in the first approved outdoor test of a genetically engineered ``plant vaccine.'' Environmental groups did not oppose the tests, which were approved by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Agriculture. The tests of the Cxc-Bt at the federal experimental station here are the first approved of a genetically altered ``plant vaccine,'' said Peter Carlson, chief scientist of Crop Genetics International, which developed the biological pesticide. Cxc-Bt was also injected into an acre of corn owned by Crop Genetics on Maryland's Eastern Shore, a company spokesman said. Only one other genetically engineered crop protector, Frostban, a frost-inhibiting microbe, has been approved for field testing by the EPA. ``I think the result could be reduced use of chemicals for crop protection,'' Carlson said. He said that would be ``good for farming, good for the environment and good for the food supply.'' The corn borer, a moth larva introduced to the United States in 1908, is one of agriculture's most destructive pests, attacking about 200 plant species, Crop Genetics said. It costs American farmers $400 million a year, according to the U.S. Agriculture Department. The Audubon Society and Environmental Defense Fund took a wait-and-see attitude. The important question is whether testing and regulation will be adequate because Cxc-Bt is just the beginning of a rush of perhaps hundreds of similiar products, said Maureen Hinkle, the society's director of agriculture policy. Carlson said the main purpose of the test is to determine whether the pesticide will spread from plant to plant, an undesireable effect. The microbe works by attacking the alkaline stomach of corn borers, giving them ulcers. It doesn't affect humans, according to researchers. In previous laboratory experiments, the microbe killed the borers in petrie dishes and sickened them when tested in a greenhouse, the company said. Jeremy Rifkin, president of the Washington-based Foundation on Economic Trends, said the pesticide hasn't been shown to work in greenhouse tests and has lowered corn yields during some tests.
AP880416-0081 	X	Negotiators for Nicaragua's Sandinista government and the Contra rebels started a second day of meetings today in the capital in an effort to end the nation's 6-year-old war. After a brief round of talks Friday night, the first ever in Managua between the U.S.-supported rebels and Sandinista leaders, the two groups met this morning for more extensive discussions. The meeting started at 9 a.m. (11 a.m. EDT) and was expected to last for about 12 hours. Forty high-level Contra officials, some in Managua for the first time since 1979, came ``in search of what (they) tried to attain for many years ... democracy and liberty for the Nicaraguan people,'' Adolfo Calero, head of the rebels' Nicaraguan Resistance, told a news conference. Earlier, he told reporters at Sandino International Airport that the Contra leaders' presence in Managua ``is a triumph'' for their cause. But Defense Minister Humberto Ortega, the Sandinistas' main bargainer, said, ``The victory is when we reach a definitive cease-fire. It doesn't involve mounting a publicity show, but of complying'' with a preliminary peace plan signed March 23. The talks mark the first time since the war began that the Sandinistas have allowed rebel leaders to openly come to Managua. They are designed to move the two sides closer to halting the fighting that has claimed more than 26,000 lives since it began in November 1981, according to the government. Agreement on details of the truce was reached during talks that concluded Friday in the southern border post of Sapoa, 90 miles from Managua. The two sides in those talks issued a statement that said ``considerable progress'' had been made in narrowing their differences and that additional discussions would be held. The talks were called for in the preliminary peace plan. As part of that agreement, a 60-day cease-fire went into effect on April 1 to give both sides time to work out a lasting peace. But the two sides were unable to agree on important issues such as verification that the Contra fighters have moved into seven designated cease-fire zones, how the rebels would be resupplied, and if they should be allowed to keep their weapons. ``We will try to seek mechanisms in order to guarantee physical and moral security for our combatants,'' said Azucena Ferry, a member of the rebel directorate. Under the agreement, the Contras were supposed to have gathered in the zones by Friday, but there was no indication that occurred. The Sandinistas, in return, were to have released 700 political prisoners, allowed humanitarian aid for the rebels and permitted the insurgents to send representatives to take part in internal political discussions. The Contra leaders arrived more than four hours late on a commercial flight from San Jose, Costa Rica, and relatives gathered at the airport to greet them. Violetta Chamorro, the co-owner of the opposition newspaper La Prensa, waited to see her son, Contra leader Pedro Joaquin Chamorro, returning to Managua for the first time since 1986. Earlier, her newspaper's building was the target of a protest by about 300 teen-agers who pelted the building with rocks to protest the publication's pro-rebel stand. The demonstrators said they belonged to a group called Sandinista Youth. Witnesses who insisted on anonymity said a young man was slightly injured by a pail thrown from the roof. The Interior Ministry immediately banned all demonstrations and alcohol sales around the airport and hotel where the Contras were staying and closed the main road to the airport. Contra leaders claim they have about 10,000 rebels under arms. The Sandinistas claim they have an armed force of 300,000 men and women, including an 80,000-man army. The cease-fire was called for under a Central American peace plan signed by five Central American presidents last August.
AP880722-0144 	X	Surgeon General C. Everett Koop said today that a wave of public ``retribution'' against groups whose problems are seen as their own doing, including smokers and drunken drinkers, could spread to AIDS victims by the next decade. ``Such a response would be tragic, but not unexpected to the health profession,'' Koop said. He cited the recent passing of laws to segregate smokers and public ``retribution against drunk drivers, teenagers who become pregnant, drug addicts and wife beaters.'' The anti-smoking attitude, he said, is being expressed in the adoption of laws setting up no-smoking areas in restaurants and banning smoking from entire office buildings and workplaces. ``These are examples of public retribution exercised against smokers,'' he said, also telling his audience, ``Most Americans would like to see all smokers stop.'' And he said it is possible that the American people, ``already traveling the road of retribution,'' will extend that retribution against AID victims in the 1990s, ``when the annual health bill for the disease reaches $5 billion.'' He did not say what retribution might be taken against people suffering from the fatal disease. The challenge to health professionals, he said, will be to move reaction to more responsive, productive and tolerant attitudes toward those with AIDS. The surgeon general commented in a speech after reeceiving an honorary fellowship from the American College of Legal Medicine. AIDS, or acquired immune deficiency syndrome, is a contagious disease that attacks the body's immune system, rendering it incapable of resisting other diseases and infections. The virus most often is spread through close contact with blood, blood products or semen from infected persons. The incurable condition is believed caused by an unusual virus, now called human immunodeficiency virus or HIV, discovered in France and the United States. Its chief victims have been homosexual men and intravenous drug users, although a small percentage of cases are attributed to transfusions of contaminated blood, heterosexual contact and spread from infected pregnant women to their offspring. As of July 4, AIDS had been diagnosed in 66,464 Americans, of whom more than half, or 37,535 have died since June 1981, according to the CDC. No one is known to have recovered from AIDS.
AP881105-0011 	X	The complete works of filmmaker Milos Forman, Oscar-winning director of ``One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest'' and ``Amadeus,'' are being bought for distribution in Czechoslovakia 20 years after he left his native land. A report in Friday's Communist Party daily newspaper Rude Pravo announced the purchase, confirming rumors in Prague that Forman movies such as ``Hair'' finally will be seen in the country where he spent his first 36 years. ``It is great that they will show his films at last, I just don't know why they couldn't do so before,'' actress Vera Kresadlova, Forman's first wife and mother of his twin sons, told The Associated Press by phone. ``I guess they finally realized that if Milos `walks' the streets of Prague again, it doesn't have to cause a riot.'' A Prague film critic who asked to remain anonymous welcomed the news and opined it indicated that ``those friends and colleagues of his (Forman's) who managed to keep the lid on his work for a long time are finally retiring.'' Forman's first films were made in Czechoslovakia in the 1960s, including ``Fireman's Ball,'' which is enjoying another run in Prague right now, according to Rude Pravo. Forman moved to the United States in 1968, when Warsaw Pact tanks ended the ``Prague Spring'' reforms, and started his second career with ``Taking Off'' in 1971. But it was ``One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest'' that brought him worldwide fame, winning five Oscars and becoming a symbol of artistic skill for Czechoslovaks who were not able to see the film officially. In 1977, Forman was given American citizenship and went on to make ``Hair'' and ``Ragtime.''Neither was purchased by Czechoslovakia's state-run film distribution firms. With the spread of video in the 1980s, bootleg copies spread on the black market in Czechoslovakia. Forman returned to Czechoslovakia in 1983 to shoot ``Amadeus'' in Prague. The film was shown in 1986 as Czechoslovakia's most other famous exile in the United States, tennis star Martina Navratilova, returned to her native land to play in the Federation Cup tournament. In 1987, Forman went to Moscow's international film festival as signs emerged that the Soviet drive for more openness in the arts was breaking down some previous tabus in Czechoslovakia's state-run arts.
AP900911-0063 	X	Federal parole officers are recommending that former U.S. District Judge Walter L. Nixon, who was impeached and removed from office, be sent back to prison for carrying guns on a turkey hunt. Herb Lepchenske, one of two officers who conducted a parole revocation hearing Monday, said he will recommend Nixon serve 10 months of the remaining three years of his five-year sentence. Nixon, 61, was paroled in November 1989 on a conviction of lying to a federal grand jury. The seven-member Parole Commission in Atlanta will review the recommendation, and could give Nixon as little as a reprimand or as much as the full remaining three years of the sentence. At the hearing, Nixon said he was carrying guns in cases when he was arrested April 25 for hunting wild turkey over a baited field. Nixon, who is appealing his conviction on that state offense, testified he had changed his mind about hunting that day and never took the guns out. Chester Diaz, a state Department of Wildlife investigator, testified that Nixon asked him to pretend he wasn't carrying a rifle and a shotgun. Nixon knew the guns he had were illegal for a felon and asked if he could switch them for an old-fashioned muzzleloader, Diaz said. ``I told him `No, sir,''' said Diaz. ``I'm very, very remorseful for what I've done,'' Nixon said Monday. ``I haven't slept much since this happened.''
AP901219-0206 	X	The Associated Press poll on homelessness was conducted by telephone Dec. 5-9 among a random sample of 1,004 adults in the contiguous United States. Interviewing was done by ICR Survey Research Group of Media, Pa. The results were weighted to adjust for variations in the sample. The poll had a three-point margin of sampling error, meaning that 19 of 20 times its findings should be within three points of the result if every adult American were asked the same questions. The error margin is larger for subgroups. There are other sources of potential error in polls, including the wording and order of questions. These are the questions in this poll; because of rounding, sums may not total 100: 1. Is your knowledge of the homeless a result of something you have seen or dealt with in person, or is it just based on news reports and word of mouth? In person: 45 percent. Word of mouth: 54 percent. Don't know or no answer: 2 percent. 2. Which of the following statements best reflects your attitude toward the homeless in the United States today? - The homeless themselves are mainly at fault because of their unwillingness to work or their behavior, such as alcohol or drug use: 17 percent. - Our society is mainly at fault because we do not provide sufficient housing for them: 20 percent. - Neither the homeless nor society is mainly at fault because they become homeless through tough breaks or bad economic luck: 41 percent. - (volunteered answer) Combination of both homeless and society: 17 percent. - Don't know or no answer: 5 percent. 3. Do you think federal spending on helping the homeless should be increased, decreased, or remain the same? Increased: 58 percent. Decreased: 7 percent. Remain the same: 23 percent. DK-NA: 12 percent. (For those who said increased) Would you be willing to pay more taxes for that? Yes: 75 percent. No: 22 percent. DK-NA: 3 percent. 4. I'm going to ask you to rate the chances that you or a member of your family could become homeless in the coming year. Do you personally feel the chances are ... Very likely: 4 percent. Somewhat likely: 11 percent. Somewhat unlikely: 16 percent. Not at all likely: 67 percent. DK-NA: 3 percent. 5. Do you know someone who has become homeless in the last year? Yes: 15 percent. No: 85 percent.
AP901112-0112 	X	Hundreds of masked youths battled police and set 30 cars ablaze Monday as police in Paris blocked the route of more than 100,000 students demanding better conditions at their high schools. It was the worst violence in a month of nationwide student protests. Riot police fired water cannons and hundreds of rounds of tear gas at demonstrators, who pelted officers with rocks and bottles, smashed windows and looted stores. Police headquarters said 104 officers were hurt, including 18 hospitalized. Police reported 52 arrests in Paris, and a dozen youths arrested for vandalism during a protest march in Montbelaird, eastern France. In all, about 100 vehicles were damaged in Paris, police said. About 150,000 students took part in demonstrations elsewhere in France. President Francois Mitterrand promised steps would be taken to address student demands. They want more government spending to improve security, upgrade substandard facilities, modernize curricula and hire more teachers. The main throng of protesters in Paris was orderly, but hundreds of youths on the fringes ran wild. Many rioters wore masks and carried clubs. Journalists were beaten. Mitterrand and Education Minister Lionel Jospin met with a delegation of student leaders and promised an emergency plan in response to demands for better education and safety on campus. Monday's march began at the Place de la Bastille in eastern Paris, where 201 years ago rioters stormed the prison to start the French Revolution. In the Montparnasse neighborhood of southern Paris, gangs started smashing windows and robbing street vendors about two hours after the march started. Police Chief Pierre Verbrugghe, who deployed 5,000 officers, told students they would not be allowed to follow their planned route and finish their march on the Champs Elysees. Many students obeyed the orders, but a few hundred youths squared off against police at the Alma bridge. Police fired water cannons when they tried to cross, scattering the rioters who hurled rocks and trash. The youths regrouped and repeated attempts to break through police line. Vandals set fire to trash and dismantled bus stops. Jospin promised more discussions with student leaders Tuesday and throughout the week, and said such talks should be held on the local level as well. Organizers claimed 200,000 students joined the Paris march, but other observers estimated the turnout at closer to 100,000. It was the first time students from the provinces were urged to join a march in the capital. Those who couldn't come to Paris staged their own protests in dozens of smaller cities. Dozens of previous student marches and rallies across France over the past four weeks have been peaceful, except for sporadic vandalism blamed by student leaders on provocateurs. On Nov. 5, an estimated 150,000 students participated in marches nationwide. The protests began with student strikes last month in the tough northern suburbs of Paris after the gang rape of a girl in a school lavatory and assaults on teachers. Protesters have complained of drug trafficking, theft and extortion on campus. Most protesters come from relatively low-income families, and many are children of immigrants. They view education as the key to advancement, and resent a seemingly second-class treatment of schools in the high-rise slums that ring many major cities. ``I'm from a bourgeois neighborhood, so our problems with security and infrastructure are not that great,'' said marcher Fabien Liabastre, 16, of Sceaux. ``But even our school has wire hanging out of the wall and water leaks throughout the ceiling.'' The students have broad public support and the government has proposed increasing the education budget by 9 percent in 1991. But students worry that improvements won't come quickly enough to help them win university admission or decent jobs.
AP881019-0093 	X	The Food and Drug Administration today announced new drug approval procedures to speed development of treatments for life-threatening diseases like AIDS. In essense, the new regulation would create a mechanism for the FDA to work with drug companies in the earliest stages of a drug's development to refine preliminary tests in animals and humans to get the most useful data in the shortest possible time. While that clearly could shorten the approval time for drugs that subsequently prove to be safe and effective, in most cases it would require a larger financial commitment from drug developers long before they have any realistic assessment of whether the drug will eventually pan out and thus enable them to recover their research investment. FDA Commissioner Frank E. Young acknowledged at a news conference that the revised procedures would show results only if private pharmaceutical companies take advantage of new opportunities to get the FDA involved in earlier stages of drug development. The word ``may'' is scattered throughout the proposal, establishing clearly that it creates new options for drug companies rather than requirements in the drug approval process. The regulation is being published in the Federal Register as an ``interim rule'' with a 60-day public comment period, meaning it is effective immediately. Young said repeatedly that he did not want to ``overpromise'' the likelihood of dramatic changes in early development of drugs for AIDS, cancer and other life-threatening diseases. Nonetheless, he defended the agency against charges by AIDS activists that the new regulations are politically motivated to help the campaign of Vice President George Bush _ who has headed the Reagan administration's effort on easing regulatory red tape at the FDA and other federal agencies. Young pointed out that Bush and Massachusetts Gov. Michael Dukakis agreed at their first debate that they are in essential agreement on how to cope with the AIDS epidemic, including support for federal anti-discrimination to protect people carrying the AIDS virus. The FDA commissioner used two analogies in explaining his view of how the new regulations would work: as a college professor giving students a clear idea of the answers he was looking for on an essay test question, rather than leaving for the students to guess what was on the professor's mind; and of the agency being more like a baseball catcher _ ``helping call the signals'' _ rather than strictly as an umpire _ ``just calling safe and out.'' In simplified terms, the new procedures encourage drug developers to meet with FDA regulators when they are getting ready to go into Phase II testing _ after preliminary animal and human tests have established the safety of a drug. The idea is that the FDA would help the companies design studies specifically greared to answering the scientific questions about a drug that the agency considers most pressing. If that happens, and the Phase II tests clearly establish that the drug is effective, the final step before approval _ Phase III testing on reasonably large numbers of patients _ could be sharply curtailed or perhaps even bypassed. Emphasizing that the new procedures would be used only for drugs designed to treat life-threatening diseases where no effective therapy is available, Young said, ``a treatment could be approved even if some questions reamin to be answered by researchers.'' ``There might be questions about the very best way to use a drug, the lowest dose that was effective, for example,'' he said. ``Such questions could be studied after the drug was approved and would not delay its approval.''
AP901114-0143 	X	U.S. Roman Catholic bishops on Wednesday adopted their first comprehensive guidelines on human sexuality, portraying it in exalting terms and calling for it to be taught in Catholic schools. Against some opposition and attempts at delay, the document was approved by a strong voice vote by the National Conference of Catholic Bishops. It says sexual education should be taught in schools and parishes as well as in families, a provision strongly opposed by several bishops who said many parents want such education kept in the home. One said families might remove their children from Catholic schools if sex education is required. Describing sexuality as a ``wonderful gift,'' the bishops say they approach the subject with a ``deep and abiding sense of appreciation, wonder and respect.'' They add: ``We are dealing with a divine gift, a primal dimension of each person, a mysterious blend of spirit and body, which shares in God's own creative love and life. ... ``Sexuality is a dimension of one's restless heart, which continually yearns for interpersonal communion, glimpsed and experienced to varying degrees in this life, ultimately finding full oneness only in God, here, and hereafter.'' The 185-page document, called ``Human Sexuality: A Catholic Perspective for Education and Lifelong Learning,'' was developed by a special task force, including experts in various fields. Auxiliary Bishop William Newman of Baltimore, said the effort was to present the subject in ``positive terms and with flow.'' Much of it has a lilting sweep in phrasing. ``We are created not as angels or pure spirits, but as human beings, embodied and sexual,'' the document says. ``The gift of sexuality involves the whole person because it permeates all facets of the human personality: the physical, the psycho-emotional, the intellectual, the spiritual and ethical and the social,'' the bishops say. ``Sexuality prompts each of us from within, calling us to personal as well as spiritual growth and drawing us out from self to interpersonal bonds and commitments with others, both women and men.'' The document affirms the church's traditional teaching that condones intercourse only in marriage. ``Like all our human powers and freedoms, sexuality can be channeled for good or ill ... can be abused, sometimes intentionally, sometimes through immaturity or ignorance... ``Given how important sexuality is ... such errors in judgment frequently have a profound impact for ill on ne's psyche, human commitments and relationship with God,'' it says. Bishop Kenneth E. Untener of Saginaw, Mich. noted the document mentions that some dissent from the church ban against contraception and urges they pray and reconsider. He said they might respond, ``We will if you will.'' Refering to widespread disagreement with the contraception ban among Catholics, he urged listening to them. ``If we don't, it will cause great damage to the church at large,'' he told fellow bishops, saying the church's credibility depended on it. Some bishops complained that many parents wanted sexual education kept in the home, and not taught in school. Auxiliary Bishop Austin Vaughan of New York, protested that the document had been shaped without wide parental consultation. He sought unsuccessfully to get it tabled. He said if sexual education is required, many parents ``will pull their children out of Catholic schools.'' Considerable debate came on a section dealing with homosexuality, and a move was made to insert a 1986 Vatican declaration that homosexuality is an ``objective disorder'' involving a tendency to moral evil. However, Archbishop John Quinn of San Francisco, said that the Vatican's philosophical analysis had been misinterpreted to mean ``the person was intrinsically disordered and intrinsically bad.'' The matter was put in a footnote, along with an explanation of the distinction between the technical and personal implications. ``Homosexual orientation, because it is not freely chosen, is not sinful,'' an added line said. The portion on teaching about sexuality focuses on the different stages of life, childhood, adolescence and adulthood. The bishops, on the third day of their four-day annual meeting, also approved a major aid program to long-suppressed churches of Eastern Europe. A national collection was to be made for three, and perhaps five years, to fund the operation. Asked how much was expected from such fund drives, Archbishop John L. May of St. Louis told a news conference,``Millions.'' He said other special drives have yielded more than $10 million annually.
AP900205-0252 	X	The stock market posted a modest advance today, with prices extending the day's gains in the final hour of trading. But activity overall was relatively subdued as worries about rising interest rates tended to restrain the advance. The stock market has labored for much of this year under the weight of lackluster corporate earnings reports and rising interest rates. Interest rates have been rising in recent days in anticipation of this week's government auction of $30 billion in new securities. Higher rates make yields on short-term securities more competitive with those on stocks and could hurt the corporate earnings outlook. But even as rates edged higher again today, stock prices gained ground and managed to maintain their tiny gains through the day. In the final hour of trading, prices pushed even higher.
AP900625-0129 	X	Iran appealed Monday for medical supplies to treat earthquake victims, and countries worldwide answered with tons of foreign relief shipments and millions in cash donations. Iran's U.N. ambassador, Kamal Kharrazi, acknowledged help from the United States and said the disaster ``may create a better atmosphere for relations between Iranian and American peoples.'' A private American relief plane was one of at least 68 that landed in Tehran on Sunday and early Monday, bringing the first overt shipment of U.S. aid to Iran since the 1979 Islamic Revolution. Iran also has accepted $291,000 in U.S. government relief in the form of blankets, tents, water jugs and other supplies. A separate Red Cross charter flight left Washington carrying supplies donated by the U.S. government. Australia, Belgium, Libya and North Korea were among 26 countries announcing or sending aid. Saudi Arabia, which severed relations with Iran in April 1988, said it would send 40 planeloads of supplies in the next few days. Even Iraq, which fought Iran in the 1980-88 Persian Gulf war, offered help. British author Salman Rushdie, who Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini ordered killed for a novel many Moslems considered offensive, pledged $8,650 for quake survivors, the British newspaper The Independent reported. The powerful quake rocked northern Iran on Thursday, killing an estimated 50,000 people and leaving at least 500,000 homeless, the Iranian U.N. mission said Monday. The mission released its latest figures with an urgent appeal for antibiotics, surgical gloves, X-ray equipment and other medical equipment. In Paris, UNESCO on Monday announced the start of a campaign to raise funds to rebuild schools wrecked by the earthquake. The director-general of the U.N. Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Federico Mayor, said about half of those rendered homeless by the quake were children. Communist North Korea announced Monday that it had sent a 58-member medical team and pledged $1 million in aid to victims of the quake. The Korean Central News Agency, monitored in Tokyo, said part of the aid shipment was sent on the same plane Monday as a medical team from the North Korean Red Cross. The Australian government pledged a $790,000 donation, and Belgium pledged $425,000. Sweden on Monday donated another $2.2 million above the $750,000 it pledged Friday. The money will be handled through the Red Cross, it said. Libya sent a planeload of relief aid to Tehran to help victims, the official Libyan news agency JANA reported Monday. The shipment, which arrived Sunday, contained food, medicine, tents and blankets, said the brief dispatch, monitored in Rome. An AmeriCares' chartered cargo jet carrying 42 tons of U.S. aid _ including bandages, antiseptic burn cream, and tents _ arrived in Tehran on Sunday. Iran and the United States have had no diplomatic ties since the takeover of the U.S. Embassy in Tehran by Islamic militants, who held 52 Americans hostage for 444 days in 1979 and 1980.
AP880926-0082 	X	Previous joint excavations in Laos were in February 1985, February 1986 and in May. ``A total...'' 16th graf
AP901031-0180 	X	A hunter was charged Wednesday with accidentally killing a man he mistook for a turkey. Game wardens said the victim, Charles Boyer, was crouching near some bushes and calling turkeys when he was shot in the forehead. Boyer wore clothes with blue-gray parches that resemebled turkey heads, said Lorraine Yocum, a law enforcement supervisor for the state Game Commission. Troy Alan Moore, hunting with a separate party about 90 yards away, saw blue-gray spots moving and fired at them, grazing Boyer above the right eyebrow, Ms. Yocum said. Boyer, 43, of New Galilee, lost a lot of blood during the 40 minutes it took paramedics to get to the remote spot on a timber company's property in Deerfield Township, she said. He died shortly after they arrived. Moore, 24, of Tidioute, was booked on a misdemeanor charge of killing a human being while hunting with a firearm. Arraignment was set for Nov. 16. Moore faces a fine of up to $5,000 and a 10-year revocation of his hunting license if convicted. Unlike deer hunters, turkey hunters in the state aren't required to wear bright orange because it alerts the birds, Ms. Yocum said. Since Pennsylvania's small-game season opened Saturday, three people have died in turkey hunting accidents, the Game Commission said. A man who in 1988 shot a woman he mistook for a deer was acquitted earlier this month by a Superior Court jury in Bangor, Maine.
AP880512-0328 	X	Sears, Roebuck and Co. said Thursday it had agreed to sell Midland International, an electronics division of Western Auto Supply Co., to Glenayre Electronics Ltd. of Vancouver, Canada, for $35 million. Sears acquired Western Auto, a Kansas City-based auto-parts and hardware chain, earlier this year for about $400 million. The Midland sale was subject to a definitive agreement being reached. Midland is a major supplier of equipment for the wireless communications industry with facilities in the United States, the United Kingdom, Japan, Korea and Hong Kong, Sears stated. Midland is a significant supplier of land mobile radios and associated equipment to Glenayre, according to L. Claude Simmonds, Glenayre's chairman and chief executive. Midland's senior management will remain in place, Simmonds said.
AP881014-0242 	X	An Iranian official said both presidential candidates have asked Iran for help securing the release of hostages held in Lebanon. Hussein Sheikholeslam, a deputy foreign minister for Arab and African affairs, spoke at a news conference late Thursday in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates, where he stopped en route to Kenya. He said Republican candidate George Bush and Democratic candidate Michael Dukakis made contact with Iran through third parties, including governments and individuals. Bush has denied this, and officials in Washington insist the United States has no direct or indirect contacts with the Iranians. Sheikholeslam said the identity of the intermediaries is ``a touchy question'' and that he did not want to get involved ``in the election games of the United States.'' But he said the contacts were not at the level of those conducted in 1986 that led to the Irangate scandal, in which arms were secretly sold to Iran. He did not elaborate. Sheikholeslam stressed that normalizing relations with the United States should be separated from the issue of the hostages held in Lebanon. Iranian-backed Shiite Moslem militants are believed to hold most of the 14 Westerners missing in Lebanon. Nine of the captives are American. The longest held is American Terry Anderson, chief Middle East correspondent of The Associated Press. He was kidnapped March 16, 1985. Sheikholeslam said Iran also was concerned about four Iranians who have been missing in Lebanon for six years. He said that while Iran was appealing for the release of its nationals, it was not necessarily linking their fate to that of the 14 Westerners. Former Iranian President Abolhassan Bani Sadr, who lives in exile in Paris, said recently that Richard Lawless, a former U.S. official, negotiated with Iranian government representatives on behalf of Bush for the release of the American hostages. In Washington on Friday, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater denied again that the U.S. government was negotiating with Iran. Fitzwater took issue with a report Friday in The Nation, a Jerusalem weekly, that talks on the hostages were held but recessed because of news leaks. ``No one is authorized to talk for the (U.S.) government,'' he said. ``As we have said before, there are all kinds of people around the world freelancing on this situation.'' Fitzwater also predicted more such stories, although he did not say why. ``Suffice it to say, we find them (the news reports) mostly detrimental,'' he said. ``What they do is build up people's expectations when they are not warranted.''
AP900601-0059 	X	A federal judge permanently banned racial discrimination in the city's public schools in his final order in a 16-year-old desegregation case. The order Thursday from U.S. District Judge W. Arthur Garrity Jr. barred ``creating, promoting or maintaining racial segregation in any school or other facility in the Boston school system.'' In a 1974 ruling on a lawsuit brought by black parents, Garrity found the city's public schools were segregated. He ordered them desegregated, and the resultant busing of students touched off years of turmoil. Garrity monitored the city's compliance with his order until 1987, when a federal appeals court ruled that the schools were desegregated and gave control over student assignment back to the School Committee. Garrity continued to monitor school administration and operations, however. He said Thursday's order would be his last. Perhaps the most controversial part of the four-page ruling was a decree that teacher layoffs must follow court-ordered racial guidelines rather than be based on seniority alone. That order, which means teachers and administrators must include 25 percent blacks and 10 percent other minorities, is to remain until ``seniority would be a racially neutral standard,'' he said. Achieving a fully desegregated faculty and staff ``will be an important milestone on the long road to affording equal educational opportunity to all students in Boston's public schools,'' Garrity wrote. More than 200 teachers are expected to be laid off _ nearly 800 have received layoff warnings _ before the next school year because of budget limitations. The Boston Teachers Union's contract calls for layoffs strictly on the basis of seniority. Union President Edward Doherty has said the union would appeal any ruling that continued minority quotas, which he said would mean many white teachers with 20 or more years of experience would lose their jobs. But lawyers on both sides of the desegregation case praised Garrity's final judgment. ``The order is consistent with affirmative action policies the School Committee has in place and clarifies some issues that need clarification concerning layoffs,'' said Henry Dinger, a lawyer for the School Committee. Robert Pressman, a lawyer for black plaintiffs, said the ruling shows that Garrity ``studied the papers carefully and manifests his continuing steadfastness in protecting the rights of the plaintiff class.''
AP880415-0262 	X	Occidental Petroleum Corp. has agreed to acquire the plastics manufacturer Cain Chemical Inc. in a transaction valued at $2.2 billion, the companies said. Under terms of a definitive merger agreement, Occidental will pay $1.25 billion cash and will assume about $830 million in debt. Including Cain preferred stock, the deal has an indicated value of about $2.2 billion. Houston-based Cain will continue to operate with its present employees as a separate, wholly owned subsidiary of Occidental, according to the agreement, which has been approved by a majority of Cain shareholders. The transaction will result in a pretax gain of $120 million for Chase Manhattan Corp., which has had a stake in Cain since its formation. In addition, about 43 percent of the proceeds of the sale will be distributed to Cain employees, the company said in a statement. Cain, a closely held concern, was formed in March 1987 by a group headed by Gordon Cain. The group purchased and integrated chemical operations from several major chemical companies including PPG Industries Inc., E.I. Du Pont de Nemours & Co., and ICI Americas Inc. Cain now has seven plants on the Gulf Coast of Texas and is the nation's fifth-largest maker of ethylene, a component of PVC plastic. The merger will make Occidental the country's third-largest ethylene producer. Occidental Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Armand Hammer credited Cain with having built ``a strong position in petrochemicals with its large, cost efficient ethylene plants and its top quality high density polyethlyene facilities and products.'' He said he expects the acquisition to ``significantly improve Occidental's net income and cash flow'' in the long term. The acquisition, which is expected to be completed in early May, will bring Occidental's long-term debt to $6.34 billion, a spokesman said. Occidental is involved in businesses including oil, gas, chemicals, fertilizers, coal and meat products.
AP880610-0134 	X	The Senate passed legislation today that would permit the death penalty for drug dealers convicted of murder, rejecting pleas that the measure would be a move toward ``reducing the civility'' of society. The election-year legislation was sent to the House on a 65-29 vote. The bill's fate is less certain in that chamber, where the House Judiciary Committee _ which will consider it _ has been hostile to capital punishment legislation in the past. ``Murder is murder, whether legal or illegal,'' said Sen. Dan Evans, R-Wash. ``We are reducing the civility and the compassion of our society.'' But Sen. Alfonse D'Amato, R-N.Y., the bill's sponsor, said, ``I believe society has a right to say we are outraged at certain acts, and the death penalty is the appropriate penalty in these cases.'' Before final passage, lawmakers voted 66-28 to set aside a provision by Sen. Paul Simon, D-Ill., that would have limited the bill's capital punishment provisions to drug dealers who are convicted of killing law enforcement officers. On voice votes, they accepted a provision that would allow prison employees to refuse to participate in executions, and rejected language that would have required prisoners to be killed in public. Both measures were sponsored by Sen. Mark Hatfield, R-Ore. On Thursday, the Senate voted 69-27 to shut off debate, ending a filibuster by opponents who had stalled a vote. ``I'm not saying the death penalty will eliminate the drug problem, but I do think it will serve as a deterrent,'' said D'Amato. But opponents decried the bill as election-year politics, saying it would do nothing to deter drug dealing and represented a cynical response to public demands to do something about illegal drugs. Evans referred to a similar bill proposed in 1986 and said: ``Once again, we're going for an election-year slam dunk on drugs. ... We're taking precipitous steps to indulge our own political vanity.'' The D'Amato bill provides that the death penalty can be imposed on people who are convicted in federal courts of running a drug ring and who are then separately convicted of killing law enforcement officers or private citizens. Many states, including those with severe drug problems, already have the death penalty and it hasn't had much deterrent effect, opponents of the bill said. Before invoking cloture, the Senate voted 65-31 against an amendment that would have imposed a penalty of life imprisonment without parole, instead of the death penalty, for people convicted under the terms of D'Amato's bill. D'Amato's proposal was originally attached as an amendment to the Pentagon budget bill, but opponents filibustered and D'Amato withdrew his proposal in return for a promise by Senate leaders to give him a vote on a separate bill. Supporters said the death penalty would deter drug kingpins. Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, said, ``To go on talking about a war on drugs and not commit ourselves to a death penalty for those who kill our law enforcement officers in that war is to make a mockery of saying we have a war on drugs.'' But Sen. Paul Simon, D-Ill., said, ``The evidence that the death penalty is a deterrent is just not there at all.'' Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., added that the death penalty provision could lead to the execution of innocent people. He cited a Stanford University study which said 350 people have been convicted of capital offenses in this century and then later found to be innocent. Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, responded that there are enough safeguards in the legal system to protect innocent persons. ``Nobody should be able to kill our policemen without paying the ultimate price,'' he said. Also Thursday, the House Banking Committee approved legislation to make it more difficult for drug dealers and other criminals to hide their profits. The bill would require banks to file transaction reports with the government for all cashiers' checks, money orders and travelers' checks of $3,000 or more. Now, banks need to file such reports on transactions of $10,000 or more. New York Mayor Edward I. Koch, meanwhile, was proposing the creation of ``tent jails'' in Nevada to incarcerate convicted drug offenders and relieve prison overcrowding elsewhere. In an appearance before two House Armed Services subcommittees, Koch conceded that Nevada probably wouldn't think much of his idea.
AP901109-0161 	X	Sen. Rudy Boschwitz apologized Friday for a letter sent to some Minnesota Jews on behalf of his unsuccessful re-election campaign suggesting his challenger was not a good Jew. ``I deeply regret having allowed the letter to be written and accept full responsibility for it,'' said Boschwitz, who is Jewish. Paul Wellstone, who upset the Republican senator in Tuesday's election, said he appreciated Boschwitz's remarks and accepted his apology. ``I think it should be the final word,'' said the senator-elect, who is also Jewish. The letter, written by two of Boschwitz's Jewish supporters and signed by them and 70 others, was printed on Boschwitz campaign stationery and mailed at campaign expense Nov. 1. ``Wellstone has no connection with the Jewish community or our communal life,'' the letter said. ``His children were brought up as non-Jews.'' The letter noted that Wellstone served as co-chairman of the Rev. Jesse Jackson's 1988 presidential campaign in Minnesota, and said, ``Jesse Jackson has embraced, literally and figuratively, Yasser Arafat, and has never repudiated that embrace.'' Moreover, Wellstone never disassociated himself from any of Jackson's policies, the letter said. The letter angered Wellstone's Jewish supporters, some of whom described it as an attempt to split the Jewish vote over the issue of Israel. Two days before the election, Wellstone said the letter was ``completely unforgivable.'' ``This is making an issue of the fact that we have an interreligious marriage,'' said Wellstone, whose wife is Christian. ``This is the most sensitive issue in the Jewish community there is.'' Boschwitz initially stood by the letter. But on Friday, after the Star Tribune of Minneapolis reported that the letter had generated angry discussion among Jews in Israel and the United States, the senator said he was sorry. ``Bringing Jews and non-Jews together has been an important element of my public service and private life,'' Boschwitz said. ``Others will judge over time whether I have made a positive contribution in this regard, but for the moment I simply reiterate my apology.'' Wellstone said Boschwitz' statement showed a ``tremendous amount of sincerity and conviction.'' ``His remarks are powerful,'' Wellstone said. ``It was very hurtful to everybody in our family, but this is a wonderful statement, and I think it's in the past.'' Wellstone said he didn't believe the letter was the major reason why Boschwitz lost the election, but he said, ``In the end, it was very damaging for them.''
AP880709-0047 	X	An 11-year-old aviator who plans to emulate Charles Lindbergh's flight to Paris arrived in New York with a bit of a scare. Christopher Lee Marshall was piloting his Mooney 252 two-seater toward busy La Guardia Airport on Friday evening when the plane's electrical power _ and radio _ went dead. ``I thought we might get in trouble if we can't call the tower,'' Chris said later. But the power outage lasted only about 10 seconds and he landed safely. ``I thought it was neat to land at a big airport,'' the Oceano, Calif., boy said. Chris, who is accompanied by a former Navy pilot, hopped across the country from San Diego to Kerrville, Texas, then to St. Louis and New York. Today _ if the plane's electrical problems are sorted out _ he and his companion planned to head toward Europe. His flight plan calls for stops in Montreal, Greenland and Iceland. ``I want to show all other kids across America that if I can do this trip, they can do this trip,'' Chris said Friday at Lambert Airport in St. Louis before taking off for New York. Chris, the son of a commercial pilot, first took the controls of a plane at age 4, and began flying with an instructor at 7. Lindbergh flew from San Diego to St. Louis, then to New York before completing his 33{-hour, non-stop solo flight across the Atlantic to Paris in 1927. Last year, Chris became the youngest flier to cross the United States. Tony Aliengena, a 9-year-old from San Juan Capistrano, Calif., broke the record in April by making a California-to-Massachusetts round trip. Chris, who will be a fifth-grader this fall, said this trip would make him the world's youngest trans-Atlantic pilot. He is accompanied by Randy ``Duke'' Cunningham, 46, a retired commander at Miramar Naval Air Station, Calif., and Vietnam War pilot. Cunningham sits in the pilot's seat in the two-seat craft. Chris' seat is boosted to window-level by a foam cushion. But Chris has done all of the flying, Cunningham said. The two flew to Texas in a borrowed plane, then traded it for a new aircraft that was built for the trans-Atlantic journey. Because Cunningham is limiting the boy's flying time to less than eight hours at a time, the flight will be stretched out over five days. ``He's doing good; he's a tiger,'' Cunningham said. ``He was sick on the flight from Texas, but he flew right through it. He's got around 270 hours of flying time in and he's very responsive. Tell him to do something and he does it.'' Chris' mother, Gail Marshall, founded a company that raised money to pay for the flight.
AP900511-0192 	X	Police on Friday sought a 12-year-old girl needing heart surgery and her mother, who authorities said abducted the girl from a hospital because the woman's religion forbids blood transfusions. The girl, Kimberly Winfield, was believed to have left Children's Memorial Hospital about 1 a.m. Thursday, said police Lt. Edmund Beazley. The mother, Caroline Winfield, called relatives to say she wanted to return her daughter, said Dave Schneidman, spokesman for the Illinois Department of Children and Family Services. But she was afraid to surrender for fear of being prosecuted. Police obtained an arrest warrant for the 35-year-old mother on a charge of child abduction because Kimberly is a ward of the state, Beazley said. ``We're not real interested in catching the mother if she doesn't want to be caught, but we do want the child back so we can save the child's life,'' Schneidman said. Police and the state Department of Children and Family Services said they were reasonably certain the mother was responsible for the child's disappearance. ``There doesn't seem to be any doubt of it right now,'' Beazley said. ``Before the child was discovered missing, the mother had told relatives that she was going to take the child from the hospital because she did not approve of the surgery,'' said department spokesman Schneidman. Schneidman said the child needed open-heart surgery to survive. ``The prognosis is she has anywhere from a week to a month to live without the surgery,'' he said. However, Children's Memorial Hospital spokeswoman Jan Benzies said Kimberly, who was admitted Wednesday, was not critically ill. ``She was undergoing tests to determine the severity of her heart problem,'' the spokeswoman said. ``Her doctor does not believe her life is in immediate danger. ``However, it is clinically advisable that she be located and treated within a month,'' she said. No one at the hospital saw the mother or child leave, Beazley said. ``Apparently, she just got her dressed and walked out,'' he said. ``They were allowing the mother to stay in the room with her, which is pretty common with young children. The nurse came back to check on them and they were both gone.'' The mother is a Jehovah's Witness, Beazley said. Jehovah's Witnesses refuse blood transfusions as being against the teachings of the Bible. ``You can't do surgery without a transfusion of blood,'' Schneidman said. The Department of Children and Family Services waited about 34 hours after the disappearance to notify the press so police could check leads on Winfield's whereabouts, Schneidman said. Those leads were exhausted, he said. The agency was named temporary custodian of Kimberly and two brothers, ages 2 and 8, about a month ago because Winfield was unable to care for them, Schneidman said. ``They were living on the streets without proper housing or any evident means of support,'' Schneidman said. The boys, whose names were not released, are now living with their paternal grandmother in Chicago, Beazley said. A department caseworker noticed Kimberly was ill and took her to the hospital, Schneidman said. Larry Winfield, Kimberly's father, had been notified and was very concerned, Schneidman said. He maintains a permanent residence and is employed, but the mother and children have not lived with him for some time, Schneidman said.
AP880817-0072 	X	Former Sen. Paula Hawkins of Florida, who has recovered from a back injury which threatened to make her an invalid, is feeling so good she's talking about running for elective office again. Mrs. Hawkins, who was Florida's most prominent Republican officeholder for more than a decade before her loss to former Gov. Bob Graham in the 1986 Senate race, said she would prefer staying in Florida to returning to Washington. ``I've been elected three times in Florida statewide and people remember that,'' she said. ``I like serving.'' The Republican National Convention has been a coming out of sorts for the 61-year-old grandmother, who spent most of 1987 recovering from a series of operations to correct a chronic back problem. ``The voters did me a great favor,'' Mrs. Hawkins said. ``They said, `You need to get a new body.'''
AP900522-0009 	X	On this island where fantasy has long dictated policy, reality is taking hold and may help improve relations with China and stimulate democratic change at home. The myth has long been that the ruling Nationalist Party, which retreated to Taiwan after losing a civil war to Communist forces in 1949, is still the legitimate government of China. That myth has long been used to justify the party's policy of no official contact with the rival government in Beijing. It also has long been used to justify the party's monopoly on political power. But events of the past week, culminating in the inaugural address of President Lee Teng-hui on Sunday, indicate the days of fantasy are drawing to a close. Lee was sworn in for a six-year term after being elected by the electoral college and stressed his commitment to democracy. The Nationalist government still calls itself the ``Republic of China'' and says reunification with the Chinese mainland is the ultimate goal. But on Wednesday, Hau said something no top official had previously acknowledged in public: The reality is that China today is ``one country with two governments.'' In his inauguration speech, Lee urged markedly improved relations with Beijing and ``channels of communication'' that could eventually lead to talks on reunification. In effect, Lee signaled a desire to end the 40-year-old hard-line policy toward the Chinese Communists known as the ``three nos'' _ no official contact, no negotiations and no compromise. There is a catch. The Nationalists want Beijing to renounce the threat of force against Taiwan, end its policy of isolating Taiwan diplomatically and scrap one-party Communist rule. China on Monday rejected such preconditions, saying Lee was ``ignoring the universally accepted fact that the People's Republic of China is the sole legitimate government representing all Chinese people.'' While Taiwan does not expect an immediate breakthrough, its leaders hope relations will improve as civilian and business contacts expand. Indirect trade across the Taiwan Straits was $4 billion last year, and Taiwan residents made 1 million visits to the Chinese mainland since such travel was first allowed in late 1987. ``We want gradually to expand our contact by peaceful ways,'' government spokesman Shaw Yu-ming recently told foreign journalists. ``We have to move in measured steps. ... It's not a very action-packed kind of approach.'' Lee also said he wanted to quickly scrap the 1947 ``Mobilization for the Supression of the Communist Rebellion.'' Not only would this mean Taiwan would no longer view the Beijing government as a rebel group, but it would also lift temporary legal provisions that have guaranteed the Nationalist Party a lock on power. Under the provisions, the Legislature and electoral college are dominated by Nationalists, elected on mainland China before the civil war defeat. The theory is they cannot be replaced until their constituencies are recaptured and new elections held. But the mainland-elected parliamentarians are dying fast and the island's 20 million people, 85 percent of whom are native Taiwanese, want a greater say in government. Lee on Sunday gave a two-year timetable for replacing the provisions with constitutional amendments that would establish ``a great model of political democracy for all times.'' He also stressed the importance of securing fair competition among political parties, indicating an understanding that future legitimacy must come from the people. Still, the promise of greater democracy is viewed skeptically by many students and opposition party members. They view Lee's decision to nominate the country's only four-star general as premier a step back toward the Nationalists' authoritarian past. But the nomination of Defense Minister Hau Pei-tsun also is viewed less sinisterly as an attempt by Lee to shore up his support among party elders and to crack down on rampant corruption and crime. Government spokesman Shaw said military rule or a return to authoritanism would be impossible. ``Nobody in this land, no party, no group ... no individuals, can turn the clock back,'' he said. ``Military rule, military dictatorship or even authoritarian-type of politics cannot ... be accepted by our people.''
AP880324-0081 	X	A four-member family earning $31,000 a year pays three times as much of its income in state sales and excise taxes as does one making over $612,000, a private study reported today. The share of earnings soaked up by those taxes is almost five times as large for the poorest families _ those making less than $8,600 _ as it is for the richest, according to a report by Citizens for Tax Justice. This happens because the taxes are applied at a flat rate regardless of income. In 23 states, the disparity is even worse than the national average. The poor in South Dakota and Mississippi pay about seven times as much of their earnings in sales and excise taxes as do the rich; in Tennessee, Alabama and Louisiana, almost six times as much. The study focused on general sales taxes and on excise taxes, chiefly those on gasoline and tobacco. It concluded that: _The poorest 20 percent of four-member families, averaging income of $8,581, paid 5.4 percent of their earnings in sales and excise taxes last year. _The second one-fifth, averaging $20,535, paid 3.9 percent. _The third, averaging $31,497, paid 3.3 percent. _The fourth, averaging $44,910, paid 2.9 percent. _The highest-earning one-fifth, averaging $66,912, paid 2.5 percent. _The top-earning 5 percent, averaging $187,316, paid 1.6 percent. _Four-member families averaging $612,122 a year _ the richest 0.7 percent of Americans _ paid 1.1 percent of their incomes for sales and excise taxes. Citizens for Tax Justice is a Washington-based research organization that is financed by organized labor and several liberal social groups. The organization considers income taxes more equitable than consumption taxes, including excise and sales taxes. Income taxes generally take a bigger bite of each dollar as income rises and, thus, fall more heavily on upper-income Americans. ``By relying on nickel-and-dime sales taxes, state governments across the country have quietly heaped an onerous burden on their poorest citizens,'' Robert S. McIntyre, director of Citizens for Tax Justice, said in releasing the study. ``The less you make, the worse you do _ especially in states with heavy taxes on food, utilities, tobacco and fuels.'' The ultimate solution, he said, is for states to rely less on sales taxes and more on income taxes. In the meantime, McIntyre added, sales taxes can be made less onerous by extending rebates to the poor and applying the levies disproportionately to services that are generally used by the well-to-do, such as club memberships and home-improvement services. The study concluded that the 10 states with relatively low tax burdens on the poor have considerably more money available for public services than do the 10 whose sales taxes on the poor are highest. ``Taxing the poor heavily is both cruel and inefficient,'' said McIntyre. ``It doesn't produce much in the way of revenues because the poor don't make very much money.'' Sixteen states still fully tax food; over 22 percent of all food purchases in the United States are taxed. In fact, the study found, the 10 states with the most onerous sales taxes on the poor all tax food. They are: Alabama, Mississippi, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Arkansas, Tennessee, South Dakota, Virginia and Hawaii. The poor spend 6.2 percent of income on electrical bills, more than double the rate of the middle-income family. But that middle-income family pays three times as big a share for electricity as do the rich, the study found. The portion of the $600,000-a-year family's income spent for tax on take-home beer is only 15 percent of the $8,600 family's share. On cigarettes, the upper-income family's share is 1 percent of the low-income family's; on gasoline, 4 percent; on fresh flowers, 98 percent; on legal fees, 100 percent; jewelry, 259 percent; wine for home consumption, 324 percent, and out-of-town lodging, 613 percent. The study found that only six states have set up a system of tax credits to reduce the sales-tax burden on the poor. In only one state, New Mexico, would the credit offset as much as half the burden. The six states and the theoretical reduction for the poor, if all the poor applied for the credit: New Mexico, 64 percent; Kansas, 35 percent; Vermont, 26 percent; Idaho, 22 percent; Hawaii, 17 percent, and North Carolina, 7 percent.
AP900612-0127 	X	An anti-smoking measure in a rural town lost its place in Colorado history when city officials discovered it hadn't passed after all. ``The election judges read the results backwards,'' City Administrator Roy Lauricello said Monday. About 17 percent of the estimated 4,600 registered voters in this conservative eastern Colorado town voted June 5 on the proposal to limit smoking in public. Afterward, the city said the ordinance passed 431-355, giving the City Council 60 days to decide how strict to make the regulations. But a recount Monday revealed the measure actually failed by 11 votes, Lauricello said. ``I'm in a state of disbelief that an error of this size could have been made,'' said Mark Simmerman, a public health nurse who campaigned for the measure. Thirty-four Colorado cities and counties have enacted smoking restrictions, but this would have been the first passed in a rural town, according to the Group to Alleviate Smoking Pollution.
AP900225-0027 	X	Riot police armed with rifles arrested at least 150 people Sunday to prevent marches by pro-democracy demonstrators demanding the government lift its 29-year-old ban on political parties. The protesters, shouting ``Long live the revolution!'' were taken into custody as they entered Katmandu's main shopping district of New Road to begin marching, said witnesses who spoke on condition of anonymity. The planned march was one of several scheduled around Nepal by two banned political groups, the Nepali Congress Party and a left-wing coalition, who are leading a movement for more political freedom. Political demonstrations are not allowed in Nepal. According to the government, at least 12 people have been killed since Feb. 18 when the movement was launched to demand restoration of a multiparty democracy. Activists say the death toll is nearly double the government figure. Activists said at least 1,000 people were taken into custody Sunday, mostly in the capital, but the witnesses, who have proved reliable in the past, said they only saw about 150 people being herded into a police station. The police refused to give any figures. Residents contacted by telephone said police also arrested demonstrators in the southeastern town of Dharan on Sunday, but they had no details. The outcome of the other planned marches was not immediately known. The state-run news agency said without elaborating that ``some persons who tried to raise undesirable slogans'' were arrested in the southern town of Nepalganj. The report was the only reference by the government to any demonstration in the Himalayan kingdom, one of the world's oldest monarchies. Witnesses said those arrested in Katmandu included Hari Bol Bhattarai, former mayor of the city and a senior member of the Nepali Congress, and Padma Ratna Tuladhar, a left-wing member of the National Assembly. Both were waving the black flags adopted by the new pro-democracy movement and were shouting anti-government slogans when policemen tore the flags from their hands and took them away, said witnesses. Earlier Sunday, more than 100 doctors and nurses in the country's largest hospital walked off their jobs for more than one hour in support of the pro-democracy movement. They gathered outside the 300-bed Bir Hospital in the capital, wearing black armbands over their white jackets. ``We mourn the death of our people,'' said one doctor, who refused to give his name for fear of reprisals. ``This is a protest against the government's violation of human rights.'' Medical students said in a statement they supported the movement. In Katmandu, hundreds of steel-helmeted policemen, wearing chest pads and carrying rifles, batons, bamboo shields and tear-gas canisters, patrolled the 2-square-mile New Road area, watched by reporters and throngs of tourists. Shops were closed, and only police vans and a few private vehicles were allowed in the usually bustling area. The government has accused the demonstrators of trying to impose their brand of democracy on a country which it says already has a working democracy. Power in Nepal is shared between the king and the National Assembly. One-fifth of the assembly's 140 members are nominated by the king. The rest are elected on a non-party basis. Advocates of multiparty democracy say the elections are a farce and that the only candidates allowed are those approved by King Birendra or his associates. Nepal's two-year experiment with Western-style democracy ended in 1961 when then-King Mahendra, the present monarch's father, dissolved the government of the Nepali Congress Party, accusing it of corruption and poor administration.
AP880611-0063 	X	A ship that has been unable to unload its 10,000 tons of ash for 20 months is headed for West Africa, where public anger is rising at industrial nations trying to dump wastes. The Khian Sea is en route to the Cape Verde Islands, and from there it will go to an undisclosed destination in West Africa, said its operator, the Amalgamated Shipping Co. of Freeport, the Bahamas. In a June 3 letter to the Environmental Protection Agency, Amalgamated Shipping said the Khian Sea was proceeding ``under reduced speed'' to the islands west of Senegal to await further orders. The company said it had a representative in West Africa negotiating for the discharge of the ash, which came from city incinerators. The Organization of African Unity has called plans by developed countries to dump their wastes ``a crime against Africa and Africans,'' and the Greenpeace environmental group said in a report last week that shipping waste to Africa was a growing trend. ``In particular, Africa, the Caribbean and Latin America have become the preferred dumping grounds of waste peddlers from industrialized countries,'' Greenpeace said. On Thursday, Guinean officials announced that they had jailed a Norwegian official and several Guinean employees of the Ministry of Commerce for bringing 15,000 tons of Philadelphia ash into the country. ``If the Khian Sea is planning to go to West Africa, if these guys are thinking of marketing their material there, their timing is way off,'' said Peter Christich, an official in the EPA's international affairs office. The Khian Sea left Philadelphia in October 1986 loaded with about 15,000 tons of incinerator ash. It has been rejected by the Bahamas, the Dominican Republic, Honduras, Haiti and Guinea-Bissau. It unloaded about 4,000 tons of ash in Haiti before being ordered out of the country. It returned to the Delaware Bay on March 1 with the intention of taking the ash back to Philadelphia. But negotiations broke down with the contractor who was to dispose of the ash, Joseph Paolino & Sons, and the ship left May 22. In March, A.S. Bulkhandling, Inc., a Norwegian shipping company, said it had taken 15,000 tons of Philadelphia incinerator ash to Guinea to be used in making construction material. The ash was dumped on the island of Kassa, off the Guinean coast. By May, the Guinean government formally requested that the ash be removed. Bulkhandling officials tried to convince the government that the ash was not harmful, but it was not convinced and set a May 20 deadline to remove the ash. The ash was not taken away, and on Thursday, the government announced that Norway's consul general had been arrested for complicity in the secret dumping of what it called 15,000 tons of toxic waste from the United States. Ibrahima Sory Diaby, Guinean secretary of state for security, said the waste was shipped from Philadelphia. City officials have said that the ash is not harmful.
AP880406-0009 	X	Alarmed by the fast spread of AIDS in the country, Mexican authorities have begun a campaign called Cascade Education, a novel approach that enlists those most likely to be afflicted to spread the word. The campaign is aimed directly at male and female prostitutes, the homosexual community, street gangs and the poor in the hope that what they learn about AIDS prevention will ``cascade'' down to others in their own vernacular. Most of the effort is concentrated in Mexico City, a metropolis of 18 million people, where high-risk people are hard to reach through newspapers and other standard means. ``We are teaching them to become health care promoters and sending them into their communities,'' said Dr. Glorias Ornellas Hall, director of the National Center for AIDS Information, an arm of the federal Public Health Department. ``We believe that using the media to give information is not enough to change behavior patterns. Only face-to-face contact can do that,'' she said. ``The best way is for them to reach their own communities in their own language. That includes prostitutes reaching out to prostitutes, homosexuals to homosexuals, even deaf-mutes to deaf-mutes.'' According to the center, Mexico had 1,126 confirmed AIDS cases as of Feb. 1, and the number is doubling every seven months. For every confirmed case, an additional 50 to 100 people are becoming exposed to the virus, said Dr. Jaime Sepulveda Amor, the department's director of epidemiology. Sepulveda, who is also president of the government's National Commission on AIDS Prevention, estimated during a recent interview the number of people confirmed to have AIDS will reach over 25,000 by 1991, making it the second or third leading cause of death for people in the 25 to 44 age group in Mexico, which has a population estimated at 81.7 million. In the United States the number of AIDs cases reported since June, 1981, has reached 57,024. Since it was founded last year, the information center has broadcast its services on radio and television and through bumper stickers, posters, keychains and matchbooks with condoms attached. Mexico recently received a donation of 10 million condoms from the U.S. Agency for International Development. The center also has trained dozens of Mexico City residents in its Cascade Education program, offering instructional rclasses but leaving the actual teaching process to each individual. ``We give them the basics, then leave the style of presentation in their own hands,'' Ornellas said. The center's staff also trains street-gang leaders and visits jails to teach police officials and prisoners. Ornellas said many of the Cascade volunteers from the streets originally visited the center to be tested for the AIDS virus and, with counselling and support, have joined the program. She said the best of them are those who have tested positive. One male prostitute in the program, only known by his nickname of Jaimito, regularly visits Mexico City markets to sing a ``ranchero'' song he wrote and recorded called, ``What is AIDS?'' Ornellas called Jaimito ``one of our great promoters.'' A deaf mute who also is a male prostitute is another is Cascade promoter. ``He uncovered a whole sub-culture of deaf mutes who prostitute themselves off to make a living,'' Ornellas said. ``We found that many feel they have no other way to earn money.'' An initial Health Department survey indicated that about 30 percent of the male homosexual community in Mexico City has been exposed to the AIDS virus. Gerardo Ortega Zurita, a Cascade volunteer leader, said cultural prejudices have made it very difficult for homosexual men to seek help. ``There's incredible discrimination against homosexuals, who are isolated from the centers of the country,'' Ortega said. ``Teaching them about AIDS is difficult. They are forced to hide from the police and other government authorities.'' Ortega brings youths from what he calls ``controlled groups'' of prostitutes to the center to be examined and learn about AIDS prevention. ``But there are others we can't get to, who are more preoccupied with making a living than with taking care of their lives,'' he said. Ornellas and other health officials say the Cascade approach is essential not only in reaching previously hidden subcultures but in confronting many myths about AIDS. ``We've come across many beliefs,'' Ornellas said. ``Some say AIDS is punishment from God, and others, that witchcraft can ward it off. In a country with cultural setbacks that include religious beliefs, ignorance and cultural taboos that do not allow the use of condoms, we found that this program has worked.'' Currently, Ornellas said the center is receiving 50 visits and 100 telephone queries a day from people wanting to find out about AIDS. ``It's new that they should come out at all,'' she said. ``The very lowest class is the most at risk, and the hardest to get to. There's a disrespect for life (among them); they don't care if they die.'' As in other countries in Latin America, the center had to overcome initial resistance from the Roman Catholic Church in distributing literature and promoting the use of condoms. Clerics are one way of reaching rural areas, Ornellas said. ``We haven't even started with rural people, where you have whole families living in a single room. Children learn about sex in one room. What's going to happen when AIDS reaches these rural areas?''
AP881223-0139 	X	Rep. Bud Shuster says it was a ``legitimate public works project'' that led him to the Virgin Islands last week. But congressional sources said things seemed to happen in the reverse order _ that the Pennsylvania Republican wanted to go the islands, and dispatched aides to find a reason for the government to send him there. Shuster toured an airport construction project before leaving St. Thomas island on Wednesday following a four-day stay. Shuster, a member of the House Public Works and Transportation Committee, had his trip to the island of St. Thomas approved ``without compunctions'' by Rep. Glenn Anderson, D-Calif., the panel's chairman, according to committee aide Paul Schlesinger. The airport tour came after Public Works staff members had looked into other projects for Shuster to inspect in the Virgin Islands, including one on St. Croix, according to congressional aides who spoke on condition of anonymity. While he was in the Virgin Islands, Shuster's top aides refused to disclose his whereabouts. ``We're going to take this back to the voters. He did nothing wrong,'' Shuster administrative assistant Ann Eppard said Friday. She said the congressman knew nothing about staff members shopping around for projects, and that if they did that, ``then it was not initiated by the congressman.'' She said Shuster was unavailable for an comment Friday. Interviewed by telephone Thursday from his rural central Pennsylvania district, Shuster denied that the committee was paying for the entire trip. He said the tour of the airport ``was an official trip, and the committee pays for my airfare back. I spent my own money staying.'' Shuster said the Virgin Islands trip represented ``a couple days off'' and that, ``It's none of your goddamned business what I do in my personal time.'' Schlesinger, the committee aide, said he was not aware that Shuster had arranged to pay part of the cost. But Eppard said Shuster got only ``a one-day per diem and a one-way (plane) ticket.'' Like other committees, the House panel is free to sponsor its members on fact-finding missions around the world. Shuster tacked the Virgin Islands trip onto the end of a fact-finding trip to Panama, Nicaragua, El Salvador and Honduras that he had taken with three other House members of the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. Shuster said he arrived in the Virgin Islands on Dec. 17, the day after the intelligence committee concluded its fact-finding mission. Asked why Shuster did not return home with the others, Rep. Bob Livingston, R-La., said, ``He had other business to tend to.'' Shuster, the second-ranking Republican on the Public Works panel and a member of the subcommittee on aviation, inspected the Cyril E. King Airport in St. Thomas on the same day as his trip home, according to officials of the Virgin Islands Port Authority. ``This is construction of a completely new airport on an existing airport. A lot of money has been appropriated for this project and he wanted to understand what was being done and how far it had progressed,'' said John Harding, executive director of the port authority. Shuster termed it ``a legitimate public works inspection.'' He said there has been a major cost overrun, and the Federal Aviation Administration had cited the airport ``as being among the most dangerous.'' FAA spokeswoman Joann Sloane said in an interview Friday, ``From what I can find out, it's not dangerous but they have a short runway. There's a mountain on one side and water and other, and they're building the new runway out into where the water is.'' Shuster said aides did not disclose his trip because there was a rule in his office not to reveal his itinerary for security reasons. Asked about Shuster's whereabouts earlier this week while he was in the Virgin Islands, aide Karen Schecter had pointed to a wire service photograph appearing in a Pennsylvania newspaper on Dec. 15 _ six days earlier _ showing the congressman in Managua, Nicaragua. The conservative Shuster, 56, was just elected to his ninth term. In September, he was presented with his tenth Golden Bulldog Award by a private, non-partisan group which presents awards for fiscal integrity.
AP881117-0017 	X	At least 12 Mariel prisoners have apparently exhausted their administrative appeals and could be deported within days, but plans are in the works by prisoner advocates to block any deportations, a newspaper reported Thursday. Gary Leshaw, director of the non-profit Atlanta legal aid organization representing Mariel detainees, said he was informed by the Justice Department that there would be an announcement Thursday on the prisoners. Meanwhile, prisoner advocate groups in Miami and Atlanta plan to ask federal judges to stop the deportations, which if carried out would mark the first time Cubans have been deported to their communist homeland since May 1985, The Miami Herald reported. ``There is a chance if we all speak with one united voice here and explain the merits of our case,'' said Rafael Penalver, chairman of the Task Force of Cuban American Citizen Organizations. Penalver is a lawyer who helped negotiate the settlement to end riots by 3,800 Mariel detainees in Oakdale, La., and at an Atlanta prison last November. ``We will appeal to President Reagan. He can block the deportations, even if the people are sitting in an airplane at the airport.'' A special three-member Justice Department panel was created in the aftermath of the riots to review the cases of 113 Mariel detainees in federal prison in Talladega, Ala. In the past two months, the panel has looked at prison records, immigration history, written statements from the prisoners and other materials, but there have been no personal appearances by the prisoners or their lawyers. Deportations to Cuba were reinstated as part of a renewed immigration pact between the United States and Cuba that allows up to 20,000 Cubans and 3,000 political prisoners and their families to emigrate and, in return, the Cuban government will take back 2,500 prisoners. The Justice Department contends that these prisoners are criminals the Cuban regime injected into a boatlift of refugees from the port of Mariel. Prisoners selected for deportation are being taken from a list of Mariel inmates who were imprisoned at the time of the 1984 immigration pact. Jorge Mas Canosa, chairman of the Cuban-American National Foundation, acknowledges there is much division over the deporations, even in Dade County's Cuban exile community. He said the foundation favors letting Cubans apply for visas to immigrate to the United States but opposes the deportations to Cuba. ``I cannot in one hand denounce the human rights situation in Cuba and then support sending them back,'' Mas said.
AP900710-0148 	X	Here are some quotes from the Soviet Communist Party Congress held Tuesday in Moscow. ``I maintain only one thing: The policy that I have chosen I will pursue, and for me the biggest prize is that my homeland will live.'' _ Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev. ``It is an illusion to think that after all dissenters, all who do not wish to be drive belts and cogs of the apparatus, quit the party, it will retain all the property of the Soviet Communist Party and the associated authority. It will not be so. ... The party will be bankrupt, obliged to repay its debts to the people, if only with its property.'' _ Boris N. Yeltsin, president of the Russian Federation. ``I don't see another force other than the party which could bring progress to our country.'' _ hard-liner Yegor K. Ligachev ``Our Russian thirst for blood is showing. It's stupid and ugly and inhuman.'' - Inna Dementyeva, a Moscow delegate. ``You can never go back to yesterday by any path, and no dictatorship ... solves anything. If any of the delegates came to the congress with the hope of returning the party to old conditions, comfortable or uncomfortable, this is not a question, they were seriously mistaken.'' _ Gorbachev.
AP880801-0090 	X	A federal judge today ruled unconstitutional the school dance ban that has been in effect in tiny Prudy for at least a century. U.S. District Judge Russell Clark stopped short, however, of ordering the school board to hold dances for students. ``It would be inappropriate for this court to order the district to sponsor school dances. However, a district rule prohibiting students from holding dances on school property infringes on the First Amendment rights of the students and must be invalidated,'' Clark said in the decision that followed four days of testimony in June. He awarded the plaintiffs _ 21 students and their parents _ $1 in nominal damages and attorney fees and ordered the school board not to enforce its ban on dancing. William Fleischaker, an American Civil Liberties Union lawyer from Joplin, who represented those who favored dances, said the school board could still ban dancing if it could present reasons other than the written rule and religious reasons. But he said he felt it would be ``foolish'' of the school board to try to stop dances on school property. Nancy Fox, 16, student body president for the upcoming school year, said she would try to organize a dance for the start of the school term next month. ``I think the only change will be we'll have some dances and we'll have some fun. I hope there won't be any bad attitudes,'' she said after Clark's ruling. School officials could not immediately be reached for comment. The school board lawyer was with a client, and members of the school board did not answer their telephones. Clark said he found the testimony of school board members ``incredible.'' ``The entire board candidly admits that they followed the will of the majority, but they were not candid in their opinions of the religious reasoning of the majority,'' Clark wrote. ``This court is skeptical that it heard the complete story concerning the board members' deliberations of the rule and the religious significance of the opposition to dancing in Purdy,'' his order said. The pro-dancers sued the school board in 1986, maintaining the dance ban was inspired by a religious bias against dancing. But school board members testified that the community of 900 people southwest of Springfield opposed dancing for a number of reasons that had little to do with religion, including the belief that dancing leads to drinking and other discipline problems. The school board handbook states simply: ``School dances are not authorized and school premises shall not be used for purposes of conducting a dance.'' Purdy High School proms have been held in neighboring communities, prompting some parents to complain that their children were put into danger by being forced to drive 30 miles or more to dance. In recent decades, senior classes have made a ritual of asking the school to allow a dance and being refused. But the class of 1986 proved more persistent. Students that year signed a petition in support of a school dance to publicize a local chapter of Students Against Drunk Driving. They asked their parents' help and sought media attention when they took the request before the school board. They were met with resistance organized in local churches _ so many people were drawn to the meeting at which the ban was challenged that it had to be moved to the high school gymnasium. The school board, lobbied by anti-dancing ministers, voted unanimously to uphold the ban. Dance supporters followed with a rally to which they invited stars of the movie ``Footloose,'' a movie about a fictional Texas town where dancing was banned. Actors Kevin Bacon and Lori Singer were unable to attend.
AP880622-0201 	X	A delegation of Israeli left-wingers and moderates challenged a 2-year-old law by attending a conference along with Palestine Liberation Organization observers, a participant said Wednesday. The delegates could face three years in jail if they are found to have violated a law passed in August 1986 which bars Israelis from meeting with members of the PLO, viewed by Israel as a terrorist group. In the first test case last month, a court convicted four Israelis for meeting with PLO officials in Costinesti, Romania in November 1986. The four have not yet been sentenced. Moshe Amirav, an Israeli delegate, told The Associated Press the Israeli group attended a three-day symposium last week along with Palestinian academics at the invitation of the Free University in Amsterdam. Two PLO officials, Afif Safieh and Ilan Halevy, attended the conference as observers but did not take part in its proceedings, he said. ``The law is stupid. But we will continue meeting in such a way that we won't be able to be accused of anything,'' Amirav said, adding that none of the delegates had been summoned for police questioning. The daily Hadashot reported Amirav actually met with the PLO officials, but Amirav denied the report. Other sources who attended the conference and refused to be identified said some members of the Israeli delegation did meet with the PLO officials. Amirav said other Israeli delegates included Nitza Shapira-Libai of the left-leaning Labor Party, a former adviser to then-Prime Minister Shimon Peres on women's affairs; former left-wing legislator Meir Pail, and human rights lawyers Naomi Chazan and David Kretzmer. Amirav is a former activist in the right-wing Likud Bloc who was expelled from his party for advocating direct talks with the PLO and far-reaching self-rule for Palestinians in the occupied territories. He enraged party leaders last year by meeting with Faisel Husseini, a resident of Arab east Jerusalem billed by Israeli authorities as the PLO's representative in the occupied West Bank. Amirav, now a member of the liberal Center Party, said the Israelis found the Palestinian academics surprisingly moderate. He said the academics told him the PLO was ready to recognize Israel and end the Middle East conflict in return for the establishment of an independent Palestinian state in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. ``We were stunned by their attitude,'' he said. ``They said they recognized Israel and believed there should be two independent states.'' The delegation was the third known group of Israelis to attend a forum with PLO officials and the first to include moderate participants more representative of the Israeli consensus. The other groups openly defied the law and met directly with PLO officials, arguing the group was not terrorist.
AP901215-0118 	X	Israel on Saturday ordered four Palestinian activists deported. It made the announcement a day after Moslem fundamentalists stabbed three Jews to death. The four will be allowed to appeal to the Israeli Supreme Court, the army said. If upheld, the expulsions would be the first since August 1989, when five Palestinians were expelled for their roles in the uprising against Israeli rule. Sixty Arabs have been expelled since the uprising began in December 1987. In Washington, the State Department denounced Saturday's deportation orders. ``The United States deplores this decision by the government of Israel,'' State Department spokesman Alan Shub said. ``We've consistently ... held that such deportations are a violation of the Fourth Geneva Convention as it pertains to the treatment of inhabitants of occupied territories.'' Other nations in the past have also condemned deportations as a violation of human rights. In the recent outbreak of anti-Israeli violence that followed the Oct. 8 Temple Mount riot, in which 17 Palestinians were killed, some Israeli politicians have called for reinstating deportations. Israel radio said the four ordered expelled were residents of the occupied Gaza Strip and were members of the Moslem fundamentalist movement Hamas, or Zeal. The radio said the activists were arrested along with hundreds of other Hamas members after Moslem fundamentalists stabbed three Jews to death Friday in the Arab-Jewish town of Jaffa, adjacent to Tel Aviv. The army would not say how many Arabs were arrested; Arab reports said it was nearly 500. The army said the four all took part in violent activities. But it was not clear if they were suspected of involvement in the killings. Earlier, police said two Palestinians were wanted in Friday's killings of the Jews, and they were believed to be hiding in Gaza. Also Saturday, Israel restricted the number of Palestinians allowed to leave the Gaza Strip as part of its search for the assailants. The army command initially sealed off Gaza, confining its 750,000 Arab residents to the area and barring journalists from entering. But it later lifted the closure, allowing Palestinians who met strict security criteria to enter Israel. Arab reporters said Dr. Abdel Aziz Rantizi, a founder of Hamas, was one of the arrested. Two men who preach at the Al Aqsa mosque on the Temple Mount also were detained, Arab reports said. Hamas marked the third anniversary of its founding Friday and had called on Palestinians to honor the date by escalating their uprising against Israel. The Arabs who killed the Jews sprayed Moslem fundamentalist slogans on the walls before fleeing, police said. Radio reports said the government would discuss Friday's attack at its weekly meeting Sunday. Curfews were in place Saturday in parts of the Gaza Strip and West Bank to prevent violence on the Hamas anniversary. The curfews meant that about 250,000 Arabs were confined to their homes. In other incidents, paramilitary border police clashed with masked youths in east Jerusalem in the Arab neighborhood of Silwan. Jerusalem police spokesman Aharon Elhayani said one youth was injured slightly by a rubber bullet. In the Gaza town of Rafah, masked men fatally shot Akram Hosli Aram, 18, in the head. An activist group said Aram, who worked as a laborer in Israel, was killed for collaborating with Israeli authorities. Aram's death brought to 318 the number of Palestinians killed by fellow Arabs during the 3-year-old uprising, most on suspicion of collaborating with Israel. At least 778 Arabs have been killed by Israeli civilians or soldiers during the revolt. Friday's deaths raised to 57 the number of Israelis who have died in the violence.
AP880930-0155 	X	A federal appeals court on Friday upheld Eastern Airlines' layoff of more than 3,000 employees when the financially troubled carrier eliminated service to 14 cities to stem continuing losses. A three-judge panel of the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said there was insufficient evidence to support contentions of three unions that the layoffs were part of an illegal campaign to weaken the power of organized labor at Eastern. The unions ``have directed our attention to nothing that would undermine Eastern's claim that legitimate business concerns provide an ample reason for these reductions,'' the court said in an opinion by Judge Stephen Williams. The panel noted that ``there is no claim that Eastern has tailored its reductions so as to impose a differential impact on union members. Indeed, it appears that the furloughs affect union members and non-members in roughly their proportions of Eastern's workforce.'' The court also ruled that the layoffs of baggage handlers and flight attendands were not an illegal change in working conditions under the Railway Labor Act, which governs labor negotiations in the airline and railroad industries. The court found that U.S. District Judge Barrington D. Parker had ``erred in granting the injunction as the furlough was not an unlawful change in the status quo.'' Last month, Parker had enjoined the layoffs. But the appeals court had quickly dissolved the preliminary injunction, saying Eastern could proceed to lay off affected employees if it posted a $4.7 million bond while the case was appealed. In a statement from its Miami headquarters, the airline hailed the decision as ``a very significant, positive development for Eastern Airlines,'' ``Eastern believes the decision is extremely important because the court has reaffirmed management's right to operate its business in the best interests of the company, its employees, shareholders and the public,'' the company said. Union spokesmen expressed disappointment with the verdict and said no decision had been made on how to proceed. Eastern, which has lost $1 billion since 1980, announced the layoffs in July as part of a plan to eliminate unprofitable routes to 14 cities and close its Kansas City hub. Citing losses of $120 million in the first six months of this year, the company said it was restructuring its operation to concentrate service along more profitable East Coast routes. Profitable service to Latin American points would also be maintained. The International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, the Transport Workers Union of America and the Air Line Pilots Association, contended that the furloughs were merely part of an anti-union campaign being waged by Eastern's parent, Texas Air Corp. The pilots union joined the legal challenge even though pilots were not being laid off as a result of the schedule changes. The airline said attrition would account for a reduction in pilot jobs. The unions argued that the layoffs were part of a plan by Texas Air, which acquired the carrier in 1986, to transfer work to its non-union subsidiary, Continental Airlines, and sell off profitable Eastern assets. Judge Stephen Williams, in the opinion joined by Judges David Sentelle and James L. Buckley, found that ``Eastern and Texas Air officials have certainly expressed at least exasperation with Eastern's unions.'' But the panel said ``the present record provides little support for any possible finding that forbidden purposes drove Eastern's decisionmaking.'' Eastern said it will save between $99 million and $199 million in annual operating losses if it cut the unprofitable service plus daily payroll savings of $160,000 from the layoffs. During the second quarter of this year, Eastern said it was losing $1 million a day. Under schedule changes implemented Aug. 31, Eastern eliminated 140 of its 1,225 daily flights and will sell between 33 and 41 airplanes. Service was eliminated to Albuquerque, N.M.,; Reno and Las Vegas, Nev.; Minneapolis-St. Paul; Oklahoma City and Tulsa, Okla.; Omaha, Neb.; Dallas and San Antonio, Texas; San Diego; Tucson, Ariz.; Fort de France, Martinique; Point-a-Pitre, Guadeloupe; and St. Lucia, West Indies. Because Parker did not have enough time to fully explore the claims of anti-labor bias, the panel said the union should be given another opportunity to document their allegations in the lower court. ``We do not view this decision as the end of the story,'' said Joseph Guerrieri, a lawyer representing the IAM. He said the union was studying whether to take the case back to Parker or seek a rehearing by the full 11-member appeals court. ``We're very disappointed in the decision,'' said Nancy Currier, vice president of the Transport Workers Local 553 in Miami, which represents about 6,700 Eastern flight attendants. ``... Our legal counsel is studying it and will advise us where we can go from here.'' ``We are committed to continuing to do whatever we can to stop the furlough and bring our people back to work. If we can't do it through the courts, we'll have to try to restore collective bargaining,'' she said. She said union leaders are preparing to begin contract talks with Eastern. Their contract becomes amendable Dec. 31.
AP880429-0226 	X	Since the prison disturbances by Mariel Cuban detainees last fall, the government has released more than 1,000 of the detainees into halfway houses or with family sponsors in communities, the Justice Department announced Friday. One of the triggers to last year's uprisings at federal prisons in Atlanta and Oakdale, La., was the fact that the government was taking so long to place them in halfway houses once they were deemed eligible for release, according to legal advocates for the detainees. Federal officials said they were having trouble finding halfway house space for the detainees. From last June until the time the prison riots erupted in November, the Immigration and Naturalization Service had released 106 Cuban inmates to halfway houses or to family sponsors. A total of 1,047 have been placed since the disturbances. INS has approved 2,224 Cuban detainees for release since last June, of whom 1,337 have been approved since the riots. Parole has been denied to 1,193 Mariel Cubans and 845 of the denials have been decided since the uprisings. When the riots broke out, there were about 7,600 Cuban detainees in various facilities. The Justice Department also announced it plans to repatriate 14 Mariel Cubans, the first group of detainees designated for return to Cuba since the prison disturbances. The 14, in federal custody since completing prison sentences for crimes committed in the United States, have been notified that the INS intends to send them back, the Justice Department said. Those in the group to be repatriated have been convicted of crimes including voluntary manslaughter, armed robbery, attempted first-degree murder, kidnapping and attempted rape. The repatriation process will include a review of their cases by a Justice Department review panel under an agreement which ended the rioting at Atlanta and Oakdale. Those facing repatriation will be given the opportunity to submit additional information on their behalf to the Justice Department review panels, which specifically exclude immigration officers.
AP901208-0072 	X	Serbia and Montenegro, the last Communist-ruled Yugoslav republics, on Sunday hold multiparty elections that could decide whether the country stays together or disintegrates. In the country's largest republic, Serbia, the first free vote in more than 50 years pits the Socialists, formerly the Communists, against a host of center-right nationalist parties. In traditionally pro-Communist Montenegro, the country's smallest republic, the vote is being contested by the ruling Communists and 10 other parties, including some who seek union with neighboring Serbia. In the struggle to shape the country's future, the western republics of Croatia and Slovenia, where center-right parties ousted Communists in spring elections, want more independence from the federation and have threatened to secede. They are pitted against Serbia and Montenegro, whose politicians generally favor a strong central government, although some have accepted the possibility that the country could break up. The race between Socialist leader Slobodan Milosevic and his bitter rival, Vuk Draskovic of the Serbian Renewal Movement, for Serbia's powerful presidency is the most important in Sunday's elections. Milosevic has so far refused to negotiate with rival Croatia and Slovenia on the country's future. But Draskovic has suggested there might be no stopping the country's breakup. ``If I become president, I would immediately negotiate with Croatia and Slovenia in order to deflate this horrible balloon of hatred in Yugoslavia,'' Draskovic said in a recent interview. ``If we fail to reach an agreement about living together, we will set up separate states.'' The Serbian Reneval Movement poses the biggest challenge to the Socialists. It demands the restoration of capitalism and the return of Serbia's glory as a dominant Balkan state. The outcome of the vote in Serbia could decide a decade-long struggle for power in Yugoslavia, which is being wracked by ethnic and political tensions between its six constituent republics and two provinces. With tensions in Yugoslavia running high, U.S. intelligence has predicted the country could split in 18 months and civil war could break out. Milosevic and Draskovic face 30 lesser rivals running for Serbia's presidency. Also at stake are 250 seats in the republic's Parliament which are contested by 44 parties. Pre-election polls indicated the Socialists were slightly ahead of Draskovic's party. But they also indicated nearly 40 percent of the republic's 6,865,445 eligible voters were still undecided. Serbia's opposition claims that the republic's acrimonious election campaign has claimed five lives. The Socialists say those were not politically motivated deaths. Opposition leaders repeatedly have alleged that the Socialists were preparing to rig the elections to stay in power. They say that since April the Communist authorities have stopped registering deaths in Serbia to enter the non-existing votes in the coming elections. The Socialists deny any wrongdoing. In last year's single-party Serbian elections, unregistered voters, who in some cases were under age, were allowed to cast ballots. As a result, Milosevic won with 104 percent of the votes in some areas. Polls open at 7 a.m. and close 12 hours later. First official results of the elections in the two republics are expected early this week. Runoff elections in all districts where one candidate did not get at least 50 percent of the votes are scheduled for Dec. 23.
AP880720-0139 	X	Here's a sampling of what newspapers abroad are saying about the Democratic National Convention:
AP880610-0120 	X	Some 33,000 pounds of refuse was carted away from a house after it was declared unfit for human habitation, the city's environmental health director said. That was 9,000 pounds more garbage than was generated in the entire city after last October's World Series celebration, said the director, Frank Staffenson. It took seven truckloads to remove the refuse. Cleanup was completed Wednesday when the last of the garbage was removed, rodent traps were placed inside, and the house was boarded up. ``As it stands now the house is condemned as unfit for human habitation and will remain so until the repairs are made and the utilities turned back on,'' said Staffenson. The house's owners, Michael and Deborah Eggert, have not been available for comment. The couple's four children, who lived in the house, have been placed in foster care.
AP881028-0044 	X	The Federal Communications Commission has decided to relax its rule on ownership of more than one radio station. The new rule would allow commonly owned stations to be as close as 25 miles apart, as long as they are in different markets. The rule would reduce by about half the distance required between two stations owned by the same person or company, and it would allow common ownership of stations in adjacent markets. The FCC said the new rule will enable more station owners to take greater advantage of the economies of scale and cost savings that result from common ownership of stations. The FCC also agreed to recommend that Congress require cable companies to negotiate with out-of-town TV stations for the rights to carry their signals. The commission is expected to extend that recommendation to cover local TV signals before it issues a final order in the matter.
AP880807-0059 	X	An Irish customs officer was charged Sunday with belonging to the Irish Republican Army after police seized electronic equipment they said could be used to elude British anti-terrorist scanning devices. The charge came after the IRA claimed responsibility for killing six people and injuring 37 last week in a series of bombings and shootings in Britain, West Germany and Northern Ireland. Police sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Frank Sutcliffe was arrested Friday after three weeks of surveillance. In that operation, authorities said they seized walkie-talkie radio sets and a sniper rifle. The walkie-talkies carried devices which the police sources said could block efforts to locate radio-controlled bombs planted by the IRA. The IRA is waging a guerrilla war to unite the Protestant-dominated British province of Northern Ireland with the Republic of Ireland, where Roman Catholic are in the majority. Sutcliffe, 30, of Dublin, appeared Sunday at a special sitting of Dublin's anti-terrorist Special Criminal Court. He was charged with membership in the IRA, which is outlawed both in the Irish Republic and in Northern Ireland. The court was told Sutcliffe, who was released on $7,040 bail, would also face additional charges.
AP900221-0097 	X	Rival Christian forces today used a cease-fire to stockpile weapons and redeploy troops for their next battle, while civilians fled their ruined neighborhoods for refuge in safer Moslem areas. Samir Geagea, leader of the Lebanese Forces militia, refused to give any concessions to Gen. Michel Aoun and said his fighters were ready for war. A source close to Geagea's command said his militia had adopted a new military plan to block any attempt by Aoun to storm its strongholds if the current cease-fire collapses. ``If clashes break out anew, it will be a tough, crushing battle throughout the Christian enclave,'' the source said. Snipers killed one person and wounded five in various parts of the Christian enclave today, police said. By police count, the fight for the 310-square-mile enclave has killed at least 673 people and wounded 1,877, in addition to inflicting more than $750 million in damage. The dead include 97 soldiers killed since the confrontation broke out Jan. 30. The fighting began when Geagea refused Aoun's demand that he disband the Lebanese Forces, the largest Christian militia in Lebanon. Geagea's 6,000-strong militia has deployed about one-third of its fighters in east Beirut, the military source said. They are to defend its urban strongholds and deny Aoun access to the port through the streets of the Ashrafiyeh district. Aoun lost the port in the early days of the fighting. Military analysts believe Aoun must regain control of the port to ensure safe supply lines by sea before accepting any peace settlement. The Lebanese Forces moved new heavy fire power into place in the Kesrouan mountains to harass Aoun's back if he tries to move into the port area, the source said. The upgraded fire power includes about 120 truck-mounted multi-barreled rocket launchers brought out of weapons depots. The launchers, obtained from Iraq more than a year ago, can fire 40 122mm shells a minute. Geagea's men are outnumbered by Aoun's army at least 3-to-1 and hoped to counter his superiority with their upgraded weapons, the source said. Lebanese forces militiamen, with nearly 15 years' experience in street battles, ``are waiting for Aoun's army in the narrow alleys of Ashrafiyeh, which has become a huge garrison,'' the source said. The militia force defending the port, Ashrafiyeh and the military headquarters of Karantina have been beefed up from 1,200 to 2,000 men, the source said. The surrender of Aoun's troops Saturday at Adma, an isolated pocket in Kesrouan, freed the militiamen for the new deployment. The source said the bulk of the militia's fighting force, backed by tanks and armored personnel carriers, was deployed along the southern and eastern edges of Kesrouan province, separated from Aoun's troops by a no-man's-land of just a few hundred yards. A police spokesman, who cannot be named in line with regulations, confirmed that both factions were bolstering their forces. Aoun's army stockpiled ammunition, especially tank cannon and howitzer rounds, in depots in the Metin mountains northeast of the capital. Meanwhile, civilians continued to desert the Christian enclave, seeking refuge in the predominately Moslem areas outside the enclave. The Christian communities, dispersed throughout Lebanon before the civil war, have gradually consolidated in the enclave since 1975.
AP880827-0104 	X	The cost of living in Fairfield County is among the highest in the country, but the cost of dying has become pricey, too. To make matters worse, burial plots are running out. Most cemeteries, where single plots can cost $1,000 and more, are likely to be filled within 10 or 15 years, according to funeral home and cemetery managers. ``Cemeteries are going to become a thing of the past,'' said William E. Magner Jr., who manages Willowbrook Cemetery in Westport. Harriet Steuber, president of a group that administers Union Cemetery of Norwalk, said that once space runs out, ``I guess we'll all have to be cremated and dumped in the sound,'' referring to Long Island Sound, the stretch of ocean off the Connecticut coast. ``I don't like to think about it. It gives me the creeps,'' Steuber said. One solution may lie above ground. Mausoleums up to four stories high are becoming increasingly common in the region. Construction of one such facility by the Roman Catholic Diocese of Bridgeport began this month at Darien's St. John's Cemetery. ``It's one of the, shall we say, contemporary modes of burial to help meet the lack of space,'' said Monsignor Nicholas B. Grieco. The structures are often multistory units containing hallways lined with crypts. Each floor might contain up to 100 bodies. ``Think of it as a giant bookcase with slots,'' Magner said. But mausoleums are not cost-savers. They are generally more expensive than below-ground burial, Grieco said. Other cemetery managers say mausoleum interment is about twice the price of traditional burial. Sometimes it's possible to economize. At St. John's Cemetery in Norwalk, a two-grave plot can be used for four individuals _ one on top of another. The practice is allowed at the discretion of the cemetery, which charges $1,050 for the double plots. But the cost of the grave site is only the start. Add to that payments to the cemetery for digging the grave and the price of a concrete vault, plus a foundation for a gravestone and it could cost as much as $2,000. Cremation, which one local funeral director said now accounts for about 30 percent of his business, can save several hundred dollars at the funeral home and there would be no cemetery costs. Basic cremation and transporation services can cost as little as $160.
AP880825-0205 	X	The following are the most popular videocassettes as they appear in next week's issue of Billboard magazine. Copyright 1988, Billboard Publications, Inc. Reprinted with permission.
AP900509-0163 	X	An interstate probe of computer hacking has uncovered losses that may reach millions of dollars and could be ``just the tip of the iceberg,'' federal law enforcement officials said Wednedsay. No computer-crime arrests resulted, however, when 27 search warrants served in a dozen cities were served by 150 Secret Service agents and police on Tuesday, officials said. Three people _ one each in Chicago, Los Angeles and Pittsburgh _ were arrested for unrelated offenses, officials said. Secret Service officials declined to release any specifics, including the number of people targeted, saying the two-year investigation, code-named ``Operation Sun Devil,'' was continuing. The probe is focused on illegal entry into computer systems and unauthorized use of credit-card numbers and long-distance codes, said Garry M. Jenkins, assistant Secret Service director for investigations. ``The losses that we estimate on this may run to the millions of dollars,'' said U.S. Attorney for Arizona Stephen McNamee, who joined Jenkins and Arizona Attorney General Bob Corbin at a news conference. ``Most of you have been taking this as a game,'' Corbin told reporters. ``It is not a game. ... They're not all kids. They're adults, too.'' Much of the alleged loss stems from unpaid telephone and computer access charges, the officials said. They said it was possible that hackers had gotten goods or cash through use of unauthorized credit cards, but could not cite any instance of it. In addition to misuse of credit cards and phone lines, the hackers are believed to have gotten into computers that store medical and financial histories, the officials said. The case ``appears to be the largest so far'' in the field, said assistant U.S. Attorney Tim Holtzen. However, it ``is probably only the tip of the iceberg'' when it comes to computer crime, he said. Statements from the Secret Service and the Justice Department gave conflicting information on the number and locations of the cities where searches were made. In addition to searches in or near Phoenix, there were searches conducted this week in or near Chicago; Cincinnati; Detroit; Los Angeles; Miami; Newark, N.J.; New York City; Pittsburgh; Richmond, Va.; Plano, Texas, and San Diego. Also listed in some of the statements were San Jose, Calif.; Saginaw, Mich.; San Francisco and Tucson. Officials said they were unable to explain the discrepancies. Documents on the search warrants will be sealed pending further investigation, assistant Attorney General Gail Thackery said. Under new computer crime laws, the Secret Service has jurisdiction to investigate allegations of electronic fraud through the use of access devices such as credit-card numbers and codes long-distance companies issue to individual callers. Defendants convicted of unauthorized use of such ``access devices'' can be sentenced up to 10 years in prison if they commit fraud of more than $1,000, according to the law. A similar investigation supervised by federal prosecutors in Chicago has resulted in several indictments.
AP900530-0090 	X	Mikhail S. Gorbachev arrives tonight for summit talks with President Bush that will focus on tough arms control and trade differences and search for common ground on the future of a unified Germany. The White House said Bush was in a mood of ``anticipation and confidence'' as Gorbachev wound up a brief visit to Canada and headed for his second summit with Bush and his first in Washington since he conferred with President Reagan in 1987. ``The president sees a new horizon in this meeting _ a horizon of opportunity,'' said presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater. ``After their discussions we should have a much better view of a new day in East-West relations.'' The Soviet president, in terms harsher than comments made the previous day, reaffirmed his country's opposition to a united Germany belonging to NATO. ``I haven't yet heard any alternative from the West,'' Gorbachev said after meeting with Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney. ``It seems that it is just like an old record that seems to be playing the same note again and again. ... I would like us to find a new melody.'' Bush was spending his second consecutive day closeted with advisers over strategy for three days of summit talks starting Thursday. He also spoke by telephone this morning with West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl and Tuesday night with Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney. Fitzwater said in a statement that Bush brings to the summit talk ``the understandings and insights of many allied leaders,'' including British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and French President Francois Mitterrand, with whom he met recently. Bush was not prepared to offer a position for future negotiations on the size of a unified German military _ a major concern of the Soviets _ Fitzwater said. The White House press secretary disputed news accounts suggesting Bush would offer assurances on limiting German forces to bolster Gorbachev's standing at home. On prospects for a trade agreement during the summit, Fitzwater said, ``I intentionally want to be vague.'' He added, ``I urge you not to rule out anything.'' ``This is an issue that really will depend on Gorbachev and Bush,'' he said. The Bush administration has held up the trade agreement to protest the Soviet Union's economic sanctions against Lithuania and Soviet failure to enact liberal emigration legislation. In a move to resolve disputed arms control issues, Col. Gen. Labronislav Omelichev, first deputy on the Soviet defense ministry's general staff, headed for Washington to enter talks on possible nuclear and conventional fores agreements for Bush and Gorbachev to announce. On the question of German troop levels, the United States still maintains such discussions should be held as part of future talks on reducing conventional forces in all of Europe, Fitzwater said. ``We are opposed to any proposal which would single out Germany for special limits,'' he said. However, Fitzwater said the summit would include ``discussions on the general question. We want to hear their concerns and their interests. We'll express our policy.'' ``This is not an issue which is linked in any way to German unity nor to the renunciation of four-power rights,'' Fitzwater said, referring to control of Germany's destiny by World War II victors Britain, France, the United States and the Soviet Union. ``President Bush will be exploring the subject with President Gorbachev from the standpoint of exploring mutually acceptable options and positions. Again, these issues are not going to be decided here,'' he said. However, an administration official who spoke on condition of anonymity said Bush hopes to nudge Gorbachev into accelerating the first round of conventional arms talks under way in Vienna, Austria, so a treaty can be completed by year's end. Bush was described as firmly opposed to a Soviet proposal that a united Germany be excluded from NATO's military structure while remaining within its political framework. Gorbachev was upbeat about the German issue as he spoke to reporters Tuesday outside Mulroney's residence in Ottawa. Gorbachev said he was confident that he and Bush will find a way to preserve the balance of power in Europe after East and West Germany are unified. Asked if he was optimistic about agreement on Germany and its membership in NATO, the Soviet leader replied: ``I am sure of that. And tell that to the American people.'' U.S. officials disclosed that Gorbachev would meet with South Korean President Roh Tae-woo in San Francisco after the Washington summit ends with a Bush-Gorbachev news conference on Sunday. The Soviet leader's plan to meet Roh was viewed as a further warming in relations between the two countries, which recently established ``consular departments'' in trade offices in each other's capitals. Before flying to Washington, Gorbachev acknowledged the emergence of a new domestic worry _ the election of political maverick Boris N. Yeltsin as president of the Russian republic _ as a major earthquake struck Eastern Europe. Gorbachev told reporters that ``everything is OK'' in the Soviet Union despite the quake that struck Romania this morning, killing eight people, injuring 260 and causing widespread damage. Tremors were felt in Moscow and Leningrad and a Soviet lawmaker said initial reports from the republic of Moldavia indicated there were an unspecified number of deaths. The Soviet leader said he saw no reason to break off his trip and return home. A major earthquake in Soviet Armenia in December 1988 forced Gorbachev to cut short a visit to the United Nations in New York, where he also met with President Reagan. In advance of the Soviet leader's early evening arrival, it was announced that Vice President Dan Quayle will meet Gorbachev briefly on Friday at the Soviet Embassy to discuss cooperation on space exploration. Arms control negotiators for the two countries, meanwhile, wrangled for more than two hours Tuesday over U.S. and Soviet conventional forces in Europe as well as their nuclear arsenals, including bombers and submarines. Meeting in secrecy at the State Department, they made some progress toward reductions in both areas. They agreed, for example, on definitions for such conventional weapons as tanks and armored personnel carriers, which will make it easier to verify that treaty terms are carried out, an official told The Associated Press on condition of anonymity. Although Secretary of State James A. Baker III's recent trip to Moscow led to agreement on sea and air-launched missiles, a handful of tough strategic weapons issues remained unsettled. Arms control issues still in dispute include whether to ban ballistic missiles with multiple warheads and the number of flight tests the Soviets could conduct of their heavy SS-18 missiles. The arsenal of such missiles is to be halved, from 308 to 154, but there is no agreement restricting improvement in the missiles that remain. Bush and Gorbachev still are expected to issue a joint declaration of progress toward a major reduction in nuclear arsenals, officials said, but they cautioned that long-range nuclear weapon issues still disputed may be excluded from that declaration. On the economic front, State Department spokeswoman Margaret D. Tutwiler said Tuesday that a new commercial air travel agreement has been initialed. Officials said it will be ready for signing at the summit.
AP881017-0133 	X	The government is losing billions of dollars in tax revenues each year because the Internal Revenue Service does not use an enforcement program on business taxpayers that it has been using effectively on individuals, a House panel said Monday. A report from the House Government Operations subcommittee on commerce, consumer and monetary affairs estimated that between $3.2 billion and $8 billion a year in taxes on interest and dividends earned by businesses is never collected because the income is not reported to the IRS. While the revenue loss estimates ``are not statistically precise,'' the report said they provide ample justification for the IRS to include businesses in the document-matching program it now uses to verify interest and dividend earnings on individual tax returns. Under the existing document-matching program, the IRS compares ``information returns'' detailing interest and dividend payments to individuals with the individuals' actual income tax returns. The program in fiscal 1985 produced $2.35 billion in additional tax revenue from individuals. Although banks and corporations are not required to file such information returns on income payments to corporations, the House report said the IRS received _ but never used _ 26 million such returns in 1985, showing income payments to 5 million businesses totaling $987 billion. ``By casting these information returns aside, IRS is not only missing the chance to assess many billions of dollars of unreported business tax liabilities but has created a double standard of enforcement that is more lenient by far toward businesses than individuals,'' said Rep. Doug Barnard, D-Ga., chairman of the subcommittee. IRS spokesman Frank Keith said Monday the agency has not seen the House report and will have no comment until agecny officials can review it. But at a hearing before Barnard's subcommittee last year, IRS Commissioner Lawrence B. Gibbs said the costs of implementing a document-matching program for corporations would not be justified by the additional revenue that would be generated. Gibbs said the administrative costs of a document-matching program for corporations would be much higher than for individuals because corporations use different fiscal years, varying accounting methods and different names. Although the problems cited by Gibbs all ``pertain to the way income is reported'' to the IRS, the House report said the IRS ``never considered the desirably of modifying the reporting requirements, nor assessed the feasibility of a partial document-matching program encompassing those corporations to which the difficulties do not pertain.'' Gibbs told the subcommittee last year the IRS would begin using document-matching to verify income reported on tax returns from single-owner businesses and would initiate a multi-year study to determine the extent of business underreporting of interest and dividend income. He also promised to begin a test program using information returns to detect corporations and partnerships that do not file any income tax return. The House report said the test program in one district office was so effective the IRS now has expanded it to nine more districts and could have a document-matching program ready by next spring to identify non-filers among corporations and partnerships nationwide. But despite such efforts, Barnard said the IRS ``has not been sufficiently diligent in attempting to extend its sophisticated computer matching capabilities to businesses.'' ``Individuals, and now sole proprietors, who know that each and every one of their returns will be scrutinized by IRS' computers for unreported income deserve to know why corporate and partnership returns are being excused from this automatic examination process,'' Barnard said. The report said Congress should help the IRS set up a document-matching program for corporate returns by enacting legislation to require that businesses and financial institutions report to the IRS all dividend and interest payments to corporations. Barnard introduced such legislation earlier this year, but it was never reported out of the House Ways and Means Committee.
AP881031-0182 	X	A Soviet official said Monday that claims against Washington for delays in erecting the Soviet Embassy exceed the $29 million America is demanding for an unfinished, allegedly bugged U.S. Embassy building in Moscow. A Swedish official said Monday that the U.S. claim will go to an arbitration board in Stockholm which has quietly dealt with East-West disputes for 20 years. President Reagan said last Thursday he was recommending tearing down the main office building of the new U.S. Embassy compound in Moscow because the building was riddled with Soviet eavesdropping devices. His administration is not permitting the Soviets to occupy their new building in Washington while the status of the U.S. building remains unsettled. Soviet officials deny the U.S. Embassy building in Moscow is bugged, and on Monday, Foreign Ministry spokesman Gennady I. Gerasimov told a news conference: ``We also have bills to present to the American side.'' Gerasimov said claims for late delivery of construction materials and equipment and for other troubles would surpass the amount sought by Washington. In Stockholm, Ulf Franke, vice chairman of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce, said, ``We have been informed by the United States that they are preparing an arbitration (case) here in Stockholm. The next step is to appoint the arbitrators.'' ``The case is well prepared and it might start any day.'' His organization is the parent body of the Arbitration Institute. Franke said the U.S. government invoked a clause in the 1977 building contract for the embassy construction in Moscow, in which either side can refer a dispute to the Stockholm institute. The ruling of the panel is binding. State Department spokeswoman Phyllis Oakley said in Washington that the U.S. claim against the Soviets is for damage and defective construction. No figure has been established for any bugging of the building. The State Department has said the building will be torn down and a new embassy will be contructed with U.S. workers and materials. Direct talks between the United States and Soviet Union have failed to settle the dispute. U.S. officials said last week they would ask outside arbiters to resolve it. Sweden's Arbitration Institute was founded 70 years ago and began dealing with international cases in the 1960s. Its reputation for secrecy has brought it a growing number of cases. The case will be heard by three arbitrators, one chosen by each side and a chairman picked by the board from a list of leading Swedish legal experts.
AP880301-0254 	X	Farmers who received some government information late have been given additional time to file their 1987 federal income-tax returns. The Internal Revenue Service said Monday it was granting special relief to farmers who did not receive Agriculture Department documents by the Feb. 15 scheduled date. Those documents are Form 1099-G, which reflects certain government payments, and Form 1099-A, on which acquisitions or abandonments of secured property are reported. Farmers generally are not subject to penalties for underpayments if they file their returns by March 1. The IRS concluded that farmers who failed to receive required information from the Agriculture Department by Feb. 15 might be unable to meet the March 1 deadline. The IRS said farmers affected by the delay should attach to their tax return a Form 2210F on which they have written their name and Social Security number and, on the bottom right, the words ``farm waiver.'' With the extension, farmers will have to file returns and pay any tax owed by April 15, the deadline for most taxpayers.
AP880623-0260 	X	Stocks opened mixed this morning after a strong runup the previous session that pushed the Dow Jones industrial average to its highest level since the October crash. The widely watched index of 30 industrials was off 0.71 to 2,151.49 by 10 a.m. EDT. Among broader market indicators, the New York Stock Exchange composite index of all listed issues rose 0.01 to 155.36. The American Stock Exchange market-value index fell 0.05 to 308.54. Losing issues narrowly outnumbered declines on the NYSE, with 460 down, 417 up and 547 unchanged. Volume on the Big Board totaled 24.07 million shares after the first 30 minutes. Brokers differed on their short-term outlook for stocks. Some expected prices to weaken from investors selling stocks to capture profits from the market's Wednesday surge. Others said the dollar's strength and eased pressure on interest rates would lure more people into the market and boost prices. On Wednesday, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 43.03 points to 2,152.20, its highest level since the crash eight months ago. Advancing issues outnumbered declines by about an 11-to-4 ratio in nationwide trading of NYSE-listed stocks, with 1,144 up, 413 down and 420 unchanged. Big Board volume totaled 217.51 million shares, up from 155.06 million previously.
AP901201-0011 	X	A weather satellite that will help the military plan air, sea and ground operatios was launched Saturday into a near-polar orbit, the Air Force said. An Atlas E booster blasted off with a payload for the Defense Meteorological Satellite Program. The satellite went into orbit about five minutes later about 500 hundred miles above Earth. ``It's going to take 20 days or so to fully check out the satellite and make sure it's working properly,'' said Staff Sgt. Tom Clements. ``From what we can see, everything looks picture perfect.'' Meteorology information gathered by optical scanners on the satellite will be used by all branches of the military to aid commanders planning air, sea and ground operations, the Air Force said. The satellite cost about $40 million to build in 1981, Clements said. By today's dollars, the price tag is closer to $60 million. The Atlas E program costs $30 million to $40 million per year to launch two payloads, he said. The satellite will allow forecasters to track existing and developing weather patterns over remote areas. It will also be used by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and similar civilian agencies.
AP880813-0124 	X	A man who pleaded guilty in connection with an elaborate scheme to sell stolen computer plans to the Soviet Union has been sentenced to six years in federal prison. Kevin Anderson, 30, pleaded guilty in May to conspiracy to violate export laws and wire fraud in a plea bargain that apparently required his testimony against his alleged co-conspirator, Charles McVey. He had faced a maximum of 15 years. McVey is awaiting extradition from Canada for his role in the failed caper involving $4 million worth of technology manuals and programs from the Saxpy Corp. of Sunnyvale. Prosecutors had sought a sentence of 12 years for Anderson, citing the case's ``extraordinary seriousness.'' But U.S. District Judge William Ingram said at Friday's sentencing he was mainly concerned about the theft of materials from Saxpy and less about the purported danger to national security posed by the 1987 scheme, which was never completed. Because of the Saxpy computer's capabilities in antisubmarine warfare, the case threatened national security, prosecutors contended. ``The American computer technology involved in this case is among the most sophisticated and highly sought after by the Soviet bloc,'' the U.S. Department of Commerce said in a statement issued Friday. ``The documents and programs stolen from Saxpy would have allowed the Soviets to use this technology in anti-submarine warfare applicatons. ... If the shipments were successful, it would have been a major blow to our national security.'' Defense attorneys charged that federal officials had ``hyped'' charges in the case, saying they claimed Anderson had stolen ``the crown jewels of technology ... when it was really rhinestones at best.'' David Ellison, one of Anderson's attorneys, said that with credit for time served, Anderson could be free in 18 months.
AP880917-0153 	X	Thousands of revelers jammed the downtown area Saturday to soak up the suds and kick off Oktoberfest, the world's biggest and best-known beer bash. Officials estimate more 6 million people will attend the 2-week-long binge of hoopla and are expected to consume nearly 1.4 million gallons of the brew. The annual event draws visitors from both home and abroad to savor the traditional Octoberfest fare _ hamhocks, sauerkraut, grilled chicken and sausages _ washed down with glasses of beer to the sound of blaring Bavarian folk music. The festival got its start as a wedding party when on Oct. 12, 1810, when Crown Prince Ludwig, who later became King Ludwig I of Bavaria, married Princess Therese von Saxony-Hilburgshausen. That five-day celebration was held on the same patch of ground where the event is held today. During the early Octoberfests, the royal family paid the costs of the festival, but that tradition has long since faded and visitors are paying record prices for their brew this year. According to festival organizers, a liter of beer will cost on average about $3.70. Organizers said they expected consumption to equal or top last year's figures. Last year, revelers drank 1,396,720 gallons of brew and consumed a total of 732,859 grilled chickens and 349,594 pork sausages. Since its inception, the annual event has only been canceled 24 times, in 1854 and 1873 because of cholera epidemics, and during and after World War I and World War II.
AP900709-0053 	X	Nearly half of the Arco Chemical Co. plant employees were returning to work today but the plant remained out of operation as investigators tried to determine what caused an explosion that killed 17 workers last week. About 150 of the plant's 350 workers were told to return to work, said Gerald Davis, Arco Chemical spokesman. ``We'll just bring some administrators in,'' Davis said. ``Other employees will be out until a judgment is made about the safety at the plant and we will continue to pay their salaries and try to keep them informed about what's happening in the plant.'' The sprawling plant complex will be brought back into operation in phases that could span several months, Davis said. Company officials and representatives from the Occupational Safety and Health Administration toured the crumbled remains of a block-long area of the 564-acre chemical plant on Sunday. Seventeen workers from Arco and contractors Austin Industrial Inc. and Waste Processers Industries Inc. were killed Thursday night when a wastewater tank exploded in a fireball. Investigators have been unable to determine the cause of the blast. The widow of a millwright killed Thursday said her husband called her a half hour before the plant blew up, saying workers restarting equipment there were afraid it might explode. Lori Davis said her husband, Michael Davis, said they were afraid to restart a compressor that they had fixed. ``They thought it might blow,'' Mrs. Davis said. Harold Sorgenti, president and chief executive officer of Arco Chemical, earlier said workers were repairing an electric compressor near a 900,000-gallon wastewater treatment tank when the explosion occurred. The tank separates hydrocarbons from water and then a compressor pumps the sometimes volatile vapors into a pipeline where impurities can be removed before releasing the gases to the atmosphere, officials said.
AP880705-0101 	X	Rebels of Uganda's Holy Spirit Movement have released seven kidnapped priests and nuns after the Roman Catholic Church met their demands for medical supplies, a church official said Tuesday. The Rev. Agostoni Tarcis, secretary of the church's Justice and Peace Commission, said the abductions occurred Saturday at Amuru Mission, 19 miles from the northern provincial capital, Gulu, after an abortive rebel raid on nearby Lacor mission hospital for drugs. ``The rebels held the hostages, demanding drugs in exchange for their release,'' Tarcis said. They freed their victims, all Ugandans, the next day after the church handed over an unspecified amount of medication. In March, rebels belonging to the same group attacked Lacor hospital and got away with large quantities of drugs. Since then, government troops have guarded the medical center. The government of President Yoweri Museveni, who seized power in January 1986, is fighting several different rebel groups in northern and eastern Uganda.
AP900426-0258 	X	Health care products giant Johnson & Johnson on Thursday blamed loan payments in Argentina for a 23.2 percent dip in earnings despite a 16.1 percent rise in sales for the first quarter of 1990. Earnings for the period were $244 million, or 73 cents per share, on sales of $2.84 billion, compared with $317 million, or 95 cents per share, on sales of $2.45 billion for the same period a year ago. The latest results were reduced by a nonrecurring charge of $125 million resulting from paying off an Argentine subsidiary's loan that was growing rapidly because of inflation in that country. Excluding the nonrecurring costs, the company said its earnings would have risen 16.4 percent. ``We are very pleased with the 16 percent increase in sales, especially in the light of the extreme competitive environment in the domestic consumer environment,'' Johnson & Johnson Chairman Ralph S. Larsen said in a statement. ``The increase reflects substantial sales gains from worldwide and professional operations, as well as strong international revenues from our Consumer businesses,'' he said. Larsen said sales of six key products, including a blood screening product for Hepatitis C, increased substantially in the quarter. Johnson & Johnson is the world's largest manufacturer of health care products serving consumer, pharmaceutical and professional markets. It reported 1989 sales of $9.76 billion.
AP881108-0083 	X	A $66 million lawsuit has been filed charging that a law firm and its major client, Shell Oil Co., conspired to cover up years of pollution at the Rocky Mountain Arsenal. Travelers Insurance Co., which insured Shell's arsenal operations from 1952 to 1975, charged that the oil giant failed for decades to tell underwriters about environmental destruction at the chemical production site north of Stapleton International Airport. The complex lawsuit, filed Nov. 1 in California, is unusual in its accusation that the Denver law firm Holme Roberts conspired with a client. The Army, which leased arsenal space to Shell, sued the oil giant in December 1983 to force it to join the $2 billion cleanup of the 27-square-mile facility. Shell hired Holme Roberts as its attorneys in the case. One month later, Travelers agreed to pay 55 percent _ $16 million _ of Shell's costs of defending itself against that suit. Travelers is asking for return of the $16 million plus $50 million in punitive damages. Travelers said Shell ``knowingly and intentionally released pollutants into the environment since commencement of its operations at the arsenal in 1952.'' It also charged that Holme Roberts learned of the extent of Shell's pollution at the arsenal while representing Shell. A spokesman for Holme Roberts said the lawsuit was ``totally without foundation,'' and a Shell corporate spokeswoman said the accusations were ``totally without merit.'' In a separate case, Shell is suing Travelers and 250 other insurance companies to force them to share the entire cost of the cleanup bill. That trial is in its second year in San Mateo County (Calif.) Superior Court. Travelers charged in its lawsuit that Shell and Holme Roberts are using Travelers-financed evidence from the Army case against Travelers itself in the California insurance trial.
AP900120-0072 	X	At least two companies hired by the Energy Department as independent investigators of environmental and safety conditions at nuclear weapons plants are on the payroll at facilities they investigated, government records show. Others participating in the audits had bid for Energy Department contracts at sites they investigated, although they were not yet working there. Still others, while not associated with the plants they audited, are the Energy Department's prime contractors at other nuclear bomb factories. Written department guidelines for carrying out the ``independent tiger team'' investigations include a provision aimed at avoiding organizational conflicts of interest. It defines such a conflict as a situation in which a contractor ``has past, present or currently planned interests that either directly or indirectly ... may relate to the work to be performed'' and which may bias its judgment. The tiger teams were assembled by Energy Secretary James D. Watkins last summer to give an independent view of the plants' compliance with state and federal environmental, safety and health standards. The auditing work is meant to lay the groundwork for actions to correct unsafe and illegal practices at the plants. Virtually all 17 major weapons facilities have severe environmental problems; estimates of the cost of cleaning up production wastes are as high as $100 billion. Watkins publicly stressed the independence of the tiger teams but did not explain that many of the experts would be tied to the weapons business. The Energy Department, which owns the plants, declined to comment on whether the contractors' connections to the weapons industry amount to a conflict of interest that undermines the independence of the investigations or taints the findings. Department spokeswoman Catherine Kaliniak said the department would prefer to use its own employees for this work, ``but we don't have the people to do it.'' Each team is headed by a small number of department officials, but most of the scientific work is done by contract employees. Most have extensive backgrounds in nuclear environmental and safety matters. A review of department records as well as interviews with government and industry officials show that of the eight weapons plant investigations done last year, at least three involved companies that held other Energy Department contracts at the same sites or were bidding for contract work at those facilities. _The engineering and environmental consulting firm NUS Corp. of Gaithersburg, Md., was on the tiger team that investigated the Y-12 uranium processing plant at Oak Ridge, Tenn., last fall. According to department records, NUS at the same time was working for the Oak Ridge reservation on an environmental study of its nuclear and hazardous waste management. The Y-12 plant is one of several operations at the Oak Ridge reservation. NUS's Oak Ridge contract was awarded Nov. 8, 1988, and was valued at $1.4 million. The firm also holds contracts at weapons facilities in South Carolina and Idaho. NUS spokesman Don Couchman declined to discuss any aspect of the firm's work for the Energy Department. _Science Applications International Corp. of La Jolla, Calif., helped evaluate the Nevada Test Site, which conducts underground nuclear weapons tests. The company at the same time was working at the site under two Energy Department contracts with a combined value of $100 million. Most of its work is at a proposed high-level nuclear waste dump at the site that was not part of the tiger team audit. _ICF Kaiser Engineers, an engineering and construction company based in Oakland, Calif., participated in tiger team audits at the Nevada Test Site. ICF held no Energy Department contracts at the test site at the time of the investigation last November, but it was bidding for a $5 million job to help the facility's prime contractor, Reynolds Electrical & Engineering Co., Inc., develop and carry out an environmental cleanup program there. ICF Kaiser announced it won the contract 10 days after the on-site tiger team work ended Dec. 1. Similarly, records show the company participated in tiger team investigations at the Fernald uranium processing plant in Ohio and the Y-12 Oak Ridge plant while it was a bidder for major Energy Department contracts at both sites. The contract at Oak Ridge is valued at $505 million over five years, according to Bob Lynch, deputy director of the department's field office there. Marc Tipermas, executive vice president of ICF, said in a telephone interview that he saw no conflict of interest in his company's involvement in the tiger team work. He said he was not sure whether, in choosing ICF for the work, the department knew or cared about the company's other work at the weapons plants. ``In order to get this job done well and quickly, contractors had to be used,'' Tipermas said. ``Like many other companies, we were drafted. We were helter-skelter pulled onto these teams.'' The Energy Department has used private contractors to run the nuclear weapons plants since they were built as part of the World War II Manhattan Project that produced the atomic bombs dropped on Japan in 1945. The contracting system has left the department with little internal expertise in this area and a tendency to rely on the weapons makers to police themselves. Watkins strongly advocates hiring more federal employees with environmental, safety and health expertise to lessen the dependence on private contractors. Although the department insists that the tiger team members' links to the weapons industry do not compromise their objectivity as judges of environmental and safety conditions at the plants, some outside experts disagree. ``It's inevitably a potential conflict when a contractor is reviewing another contractor, and the reason is that any possible criticism of one contractor might lead to future business for another contractor,'' said Donald F. Kettl, a political science professor at Vanderbilt University and author of a book on government use of contractors. Other tiger team members included companies in charge of running nuclear weapons plants, though not the ones they investigated. These include EG&G Inc., which is the prime contractor at the Rocky Flats plutonium processing plant near Denver, the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory at Idaho Falls, which processes naval nuclear fuels, and the Mound Laboratory near Dayton, Ohio, which makes detonators for nuclear arms. Martin Marietta Energy Systems Inc., which runs the Oak Ridge facilities, participated in some other audits, as did subsidiaries of Westinghouse Electric Corp., which runs several weapons sites, and Mason and Hangar Silas Mason Co., operator of the Pantex final weapons assembly plant near Amarillo, Texas.
AP880727-0015 	X	Fire-spitting helicopters were dispatched to Yellowstone National Park on Tuesday to help protect the Old Faithful geyser area from a 6,000-acre blaze, part of the worst series of fires in the park in nearly a century. Almost 1,000 firefighters were summoned to the scene, but officials had not decided as of early Tuesday evening whether to actively fight the fire, one of a dozen burning in the oldest national park. The fires have charred more than 70,000 acres in the 2.2 million-acre park, the nation's oldest national park. One fire, the 47,000-acre blaze dubbed ``Clover Mist'' on the eastern edge of Yellowstone, made two jumps into Shoshone National Forest. Interior Secretary Donald Hodel made plans to tour Yellowstone by helicopter Wednesday to get a first-hand view of the devastation. Winds were pushing the Old Faithful fire away from the geyser complex, which includes an historic inn and several other buildings. But fire managers decided as a safeguard to call in ``heli-torches'' that can spew a napalm-like substance. If officials decide to use them, the copters will be used to start ``backfires'' to burn away brush in the main fire's path. The fire, which started Friday in the adjacent Targhee National Forest in Idaho, burned roughly 10 miles west of Old Faithful, and about 10-15 miles south of Madison Junction, said Fire Information Officer Bruce Fox. Later estimated differed on how far the fire was from Old Faithful, ranging from about 6 miles to 10 miles, but officials agreed that it was still burning toward the northeast, a direction would bypass the geyser. Spokesmen stressed that their figures on total acreage burned also were estimates. Officials said they didn't believe firefighters could ever douse the flames. ``These fires are going to burn until the weather puts them out,'' said Fox. A fire camp was established 13 miles north of Old Faithful in an open field, where resting firefighters relaxed in tents or simply stretched out on the ground. Other firefighters were at Old Faithful picking the area clean of downed trees, piles of firewood, twigs and pine needles that could feed embers carried by winds to the area. They also cleared the ground around a microwave tower that provides Old Faithful's communications with the rest of the park. Plans were made to burn a five-mile-long meadow, possibly on Wednesday, to clear out the dry vegetation and thus slow the fire if it turned toward Old Faithful, said Fox. ``With the worst-case weather scenario (strong winds out of the west), that probably wouldn't hold it. But it would definitely slow it down,'' he said. ``If all else fails, we'll backfire Old Faithful.'' Eighty firefighters were sent to an area near Frost Lake, located 10 miles north of Yellowstone's East Entrance, where flames had blackened about 200 acres since the fire moved into the national forest during the weekend, said forest spokesman Dave Damron. Another 60 were 10 miles farther to the north where the ``Canoe Lake'' fire had burned about 50 acres, he said. Unusually hot and dry conditions this summer have left Yellowstone and the rest of northwestern Wyoming tinder-box dry. ``The last time they had this much fire in the park was in the late 1800s,'' said Incident Commander Larry Caplinger. ``The fuel conditions, and the weather conditions, lend themselves to extreme fire potential. ``The outlook is we probably got at least three long months of fire season ahead of us in this part of the country,'' he added. ``We could be in for the beginning of the siege of '88.'' Although no closures of services or accommodations at Old Faithful had been ordered, park visitors were advised such closures may eventually be necessary. Fires have forced the closure of Grant Village and the road from there south to the South Entrance. At Grant Village, about 500 firefighters were continuing to fight flames from the the Shoshone and Red fires that had spread to 20,200 acres. The village includes a small hotel and some trailers and apartments for park service personnel. Hot embers shooting ahead of the fires Monday night burned through power lines at the area of the village and set one building on fire. Officials said the structure wasn't seriously damaged. Flames also had burned around the Lewis Lake campground, torching trees along the perimeter of the area, according to fire officials. In the Teton Wilderness that borders Yellowstone on the south, some 690 firefighters worked Tuesday along the northern edge of the 24,400-acre Mink Creek fire. While good progress was made during the day on the southern end of the fire, thunderstorms packing some erratic winds were creating a problem on the northern end, which had burned about 1,200 acres into Yellowstone's remote backcountry.
AP900919-0235 	X	The president and chief executive officer of CPC International Inc., Charles R. Shoemate, also will serve as chairman of the board, the food company announced Wednesday. Shoemate, 50, succeeds James R. Eiszner, who died Sept. 11. Shoemate joined CPC in 1962 and has held positions in manufacturing, finance and management within the consumer foods and corn refining businesses. He became president in October 1988. Based in Englewood Cliffs, CPC had sales of $5.1 billion last year. Among its U.S. brands are Hellmann's mayonnaise, Skippy peanut butter and Mazola corn oil and margarine.
AP900209-0240 	X	The dollar fell against most major currencies in European trading today. Gold was quoted nominally softer. The dollar lost ground against the yen in Tokyo today, closing at 144.72 yen, down 0.78 yen from Thursday's close of 145.50 yen. Later in London, the dollar traded at 145.15 yen. Traders sold the West German mark for the yen throughout the day to take profits on overbought mark positions, dealers said. Concerns about the implications of a proposal to unify the two German monetary systems, along with profit-taking, helped push the mark lower, traders said. Other dollar rates at midmorning, compared with late Thursday's prices, included: 1.6665 West German marks, down from 1.6872; 1.4890 Swiss francs, down from 1.4905; 5.6710 French francs, down from 5.6725; 1.8840 Dutch guilders, up from 1.8810; 1,241.00 Italian lire, down from 1,241.50; and 1.1940 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1970. The British pound traded at $1.6910, compared with $1.6885 late Thursday. London's major gold dealers fixed a recommended price of $418.50 at midmorning, up from $417.75 bid late Thursday. In Zurich, the bid price was $418.75, up from $417.75 bid late Thursday. Gold in Hong Kong rose 96 cents an ounce today, to close at $417.42. Silver traded at a bid price of $5.34 a troy ounce, up from Thursday's $5.32.
AP900412-0097 	X	Superstitions generally cast Friday the 13th into a bad luck day for the so-called ``triskaidekaphobics'' who fear it, but the number 13 also has some good signs. In this Liberty Bell city the 13 colonies declared independence, and the 13-letter slogan ``E Pluribus Unum'' is placed on U.S. coins. Also Philadelphia is the headquarters for the Friday the 13th club, founded 54 years ago by 13 men, limits membership to 13 and only meets on Friday the 13th. ``We replace members only when someone dies or leaves town,'' member Arthur Klein said of the club, whose theme is to defy all the superstitutions. This Friday the 13th, the club will gather at 8:13 a.m. in a paint warehouse where chairman Max Buten has assembled some ladders. Not only will members walk under the ladders. They also will open black umbrellas, break mirrors and spill salt. They may even have a few black cats. Scared? ``Not us,'' said Klein, who wouldn't say if he would be carrying a rabbit's foot or would be knocking on wood when walking under the ladders. ``As soon as this meeting's over I'm asking for a substantial premium reduction on my warehouse's catastrophe insurance,'' Buten said. Nordic myth has it that number 13 first became unlucky a few thousand years ago when, at a banquet of a dozen benevolent gods, an uninvited bad god intruded and started a fight that killed the most popular god. Another explanation for calling it a bad day was that Jesus was crucified on a Friday and there were 13 at his Last Supper. Many buildings omit 13 when numbering floors. Some hospitals don't have a room 13. Some people won't start a trip on the 13th. Klein isn't worried about defying the superstitions. ``Hey, we've been meeting every Friday the 13th, and nothing's stopped us yet,'' he said. There's a target date for stopping, though. The last scheduled meeting, according to the club's charter, is Friday, Oct. 13, 2000.
AP880409-0136 	X	Candidate Sonny Bono isn't sure how he'll do in this desert resort's mayoral election Tuesday, but just ask him about his ex-wife's chances for an Oscar. ``I had this vision,'' Bono said. ``This incredible thought occurred to me. `Cher's going to win the Academy Award.' I called her yesterday. I said, `Cher, you're going to win.' ``She said, `From your mouth to God's ear.''' Cher is a nominee for Best Actress in Monday night's Academy Awards for her performance in ``Moonstruck.'' And her former singing and marriage partner is on the ballot for mayor the next day in this celebrity desert resort. ``Wouldn't it be fun if she won the Academy Award and I was elected mayor?'' Bono said in a recent interview at his lavish mansion here. `It would be unprecedented in that Sonny and Cher stays alive in so many ways, years later.'' It's been 23 years since the bell-bottomed, fur-vested couple hit the top of the record charts singing ``I've Got You Babe,'' and 14 years since both their television show and marriage ended. Bono, who recently appeared in offbeat movie ``Hairspray'' and also runs a restaurant, announced his candidacy a year ago, drawing hoots and howls from people who remembered him as the long-haired butt of Cher's jokes and whose career bottomed out after guest spots on ``Love Boat'' and ``Fantasy Island.'' ``They thought it was a joke,'' Bono said of townspeople's reaction to his candidacy. ``They came around because I put my body out there for people to start shooting at. And people came around. They now take me very seriously.'' Show business, he says, was never as tough as running for office. ``Not even close!'' The pressure and anxiety reached major proportions March 31 when he burst into a televised candidates' forum and exploded at the moderator for not explaining that he wasn't participating because his pregnant fourth wife, Mary, 26, was hospitalized with the flu. The couple's first child is due April 17. ``I shouldn't have gotten that emotional or let it affect me that much. But it did,'' he said apologetically. Although there are seven candidates for mayor, the media spotlight is on Bono. ``We got calls from Europe, an Australian television station. ABC is coming in tomorrow. It's just crazy,'' said campaign worker Glenn Symonds. Bono is fueling his campaign by selling $15 ``Sonny Bono for Mayor'' T-shirts. The sales of shirts, buttons and bumper stickers account for $37,000 of his $53,000 campaign war chest, the largest of the candidates. Bono's opponents are Vice Mayor Eli Birer, businesswoman Deyna Hodges, accountant Lloyd Maryanov, Agua Caliente Indian Tribe Secretary Ray Patencio, real estate agent Neil Beatty and retired dentist Lewis Friedman. ``I've never run against a celebrity before. It's really tough,'' Birer said. Bono moved to the desert four years ago to escape Los Angeles. The tranquility relaxed him, and he enjoyed the small-town atmosphere. But he soon had run-ins with city officials over the size of a sign for his Italian restaurant, ``Bono,'' and about a retaining wall he was building at his home. So, like Carmel's Clint Eastwood, he decided to run for mayor. ``It was very dictatorial, very controlled, very hostile,'' Bono said of the city government. ``I have a big investment in this city. I don't want to see it deteriorate or decline.'' Incumbent Frank Bogert, 76, is stepping down after two two-year terms. The new mayor will serve a four-year term and be paid $15,000 a year. The part-time, non-partisan official presides over the City Council, while a city manager handles daily operations and makes recommendations to the council. Whatever townspeople think of Bono's candidacy, most agree that Palm Springs needs revitalization. It has lost business, clout and tourists to other nearby desert communities such as Palm Desert and Rancho Mirage, where Frank Sinatra lives. If he's elected, Bono has plans to draw tourists to this town 120 miles southeast of Los Angeles, including a film festival with big-name celebrities, a sporting event such as a marathon or triathalon and concerts. But win or lose, Bono knows he made a difference by getting the issues discussed and people interested. An election in this community of 38,000 residents usually draws about 6,000 of its 18,000 registered voters. That's expected to double Tuesday. ``At least I added excitement to the race,'' he said. ``It would have been a yawn without me.''
AP900118-0032 	X	An international group of lawyers is planning a court challenge to the government screening process that determines which Vietnamese boat people are to be forcibly repatriated, a spokesman said today. ``We think that there are cases of persons who are genuine refugees who have fallen through the cracks in the process'' and were mistakenly classified as illegal immigrants, said David Clark, senior lecturer in political science at Hong Kong University. This British colony once considered all Vietnamese who arrived by boat to seek asylum as refugees eligible for resettlement overseas. But the government, facing a mounting influx of Vietnamese, decided in June 1988 to classify arriving boat people as illegal immigrants subject to repatriation unless they could prove they fled persecution in their Communist homeland. About 85 percent of the approximately 44,000 boat people who have arrived under the new policy are expected to face forced repatriation. The current screening process involves an interview with an immigration officer and gives the opportunity for one appeal. So far, 51 boat people have been forcibly repatriated and about 1,000 have gone back voluntarily. The London-based human rights organization Amnesty International earlier this week criticized the program, saying immigration officers often have scant knowledge of the situation in Vietnam and that translating services need improvement. The group of lawyers, which includes members from the United States and Britain, has selected nine boat people who were screened out by immigration officials and had their appeals denied. ``We have evidence in those cases that there were various defects'' in the process, said Clark. He added that the Vietnamese chosen for the case appear to have a good claim to being classified as refugees. The lawyers plan to go to the colony's High Court with their complaints in a few weeks to seek the overturn of the screening results, said Clark, who has taught administrative law in Hong Kong for 11 years. ``It will be a tough case to win,'' he said. ``The government will fight it tooth and nail.' If the High Court rules against the challenge, the lawyers' group can take the case to the Court of Appeal in Hong Kong and then the Privy Council in London. If that fails, the group may take action against the screening process through the European Commission of Human Rights. The impetus for the legal challenge came largely from Americans Arthur Helton, of the Lawyers' Committee for Human Rights; Janelle Diller, of the Indochina Resource Action Center, and Briton David Burgess.
AP880528-0130 	X	Delegates of Mauritius stormed out of the final session of the Organization of African Unity summit Saturday and accused the OAU of hypocrisy for criticizing their nation's increased trade with South Africa. ``These self-righteous, hypocritical accusations are an insult to Mauritius,'' said Satoam Boolall, the island nation's chief representative at the summit. ``My government feels that it is being unfairly and unjustly singled out.'' Boolall, of Mauritius' Foreign Ministry, said Prime Minister Aneerood Jugnauth ordered the delegation to walk out of the session. Conference sources said the Comoros Islands and the Seychelles, two other Indian Ocean islands, also protested the summit's adoption of an OAU Liberation Committee report expressing embarrassment and concern at their growing trade ties with South Africa. Thirty heads of state attended the OAU's 25th anniversary celebrations and its 24th summit in Addis Ababa, the organization's headquarters. OAU Secretary-General Ide Oumarou of Niger said the final resolution criticized those African nations that do not border South Africa and whose economic relationship with the white-dominated government was ``voluntary and deliberate.'' He said the organization was not being hypocritical in not citing the countries whose geographical proximity to South African and colonial heritages have forced their economies to be integrated into that of South Africa. Black Africa does about $1 billion a year business with South Africa, most of it covert. The summit established a committee to investigate that. It also asked the OAU secretariat to report on the financial cost of opening a Washington D.C. office to back efforts encouraging passage of a U.S. bill supporting economic sanctions against South Africa. The OAU member countries repeated longstanding calls for the United States to use its influence with Pretoria to ensure the speedy implementation of U.N. Resolution 435, calling for a cease-fire and referendum in Namibia, which South Africa administers. The summit also said it would work toward convening a U.N. Security Concil meeting to ``examine the totality of racist South Africa's reprehensive policies and acts of state terrorism in South Africa, Namibia and the region.'' The OAU discussed the $12 million owed by 34 member states to the organization's fund for the support of liberation movements. A resolution urged that the members owing money, some of which have never contributed, to clear their debts within two years ``to enable national liberation movements to intensify the armed struggle in Namibia and South Africa.'' President Moussa Traore of Mali, newly-elected chairman of the OAU, told reporters the pan-African body will continue to pursue its call for a unified front of the African National Congress, the main guerrilla movement fighting white domination in South Africa, and the much smaller Pan Africanist Congress, which are fighting South Africa's government. Under South Africa's system of apartheid, the nation's 26 million blacks have no voice in national affairs. The 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate schools, districts and health services.
AP900314-0180 	X	Former Fruehauf Corp. chief execitve Neal Combs, who ran the company when it was dismantled to meet leveraged buyout debts, has been replaced as head of its truck-trailer operation. Combs was replaced Tuesday as Fruehauf Trailer Corp.'s chief executive by Terex Corp. President Woodward Baldus, officials said. Green Bay, Wis.-based Terex bought Fruehauf's trailer business last August as Fruehauf assets were sold off to meet debts from a $1.5-billion leveraged buyout by management. Fruehauf Trailer Corp. continues as a Terex subsidiary. Combs went to Terex with the trailer business. Combs could not be reached for comment Wednesday at Fruehauf or at his home. ``Combs was asked to resign,'' Terex spokesman Jeff Zilka said, but declined further comment. The last of the former Fruehauf's assets, Kelsey-Hayes Co., maker of auto parts such as aluminum wheels and anti-lock braking systems, was sold to Canada's Varity Corp. last November. Fruehauf Trailer employs about 5,100 people in its U.S. operations.
AP900421-0056 	X	At 3 a.m., the telephone buzzes Adnan Khashoggi awake in his luxurious bedroom, 47 floors above Manhattan. The Saudi Arabian financier plugs the phone into a transmitter locked around his ankle, sends a signal and goes back to sleep. Most people who deal in billions of dollars and hobnob with presidents and kings might think it demeaning to be monitored so. But Khashoggi seems amused by this nightly ritual that lets authorities check his whereabouts outside U.S. District Court, where he is on trial with former Philippine first lady Imelda Marcos. ``I call it the government's wake-up service. It wakes me up in time for morning prayers,'' joked Khashoggi, a Moslem. Raising a pants leg to reveal the black, wristwatch-like gadget, he added: ``When this (trial) is over, I might go into selling these things. This one, I am going to auction off _ for charity.'' It wouldn't be the first time ``A.K.,'' as his intimates call him, found a business opportunity in an unexpected place. He has done that for years on his way to becoming one of the world's most famous citizens and, for a time, perhaps its richest. Despite a series of business setbacks in recent years, Khashoggi is so wealthy that numbers are almost irrelevant. ``Adnan would consider himself penniless if he was down to his last hundred million,'' says James Linn, his lawyer. Khashoggi, 54, is vague about his current worth but doubts that he ever was the world's richest man. He says that title belongs to his friend the Sultan of Brunei. His wealth may be best judged by his bail. He put up the required $10 million, but authorities said it was small change to Khashoggi, and feared he would forfeit it for freedom. He was released from jail only after King Fahd of Saudi Arabia sent a letter guaranteeing that he would not attempt to flee, and after he agreed to wear the monitoring device. In an interview at his lavish apartment, with its artworks by Dufy and Miro and its sweeping views of the city, Khashoggi described an investment portfolio that once ranged over 35 countries. ``In my heyday I used to earn $80 million to $100 million a year and probably spent, on this style of life, $40 million,'' he said. ``But when they say I am the world's richest man, how do they come to this conclusion? I don't have $10 billion in the bank.'' When a $600 million Salt Lake City project went bust in 1987, he lost $300 million. ``That was the beginning of the disaster stories. Because it was me, everybody thought I went bankrupt, but it was not true,'' he said. Khashoggi reportedly was a middleman and financier of the Iran-Contra affair, in which profits from secret U.S. arms sales to Iran were channeled to rebel groups fighting the Sandinista government of Nicaragua. In his opening statement at the trial, Linn tried to dispel the idea that there was something wrong with being an arms trader, saying all Khashoggi's arms dealings had U.S. and Saudi government approval. Khashoggi describes himself as an ``international salesman,'' and ``merchant banker.'' He insists there is nothing sinister or mysterious about what he does. ``I am a hard-working man, and I have to pay my bills,'' he said. ``I am just like you _ with a few extra zeros.'' Despite his wealth, Khashoggi takes the subway to and from court to avoid traffic. Last week, when the train stalled, he walked 29 blocks home; few passersby took notice of the short, portly man talking into a hand-held telephone as he strode up Park Avenue. In court, he dozes off occasionally as testimony focuses mainly on Mrs. Marcos' alleged financial misdeeds. The government claims she and her late husband, Ferdinand, looted their country's treasury of about $220 million, depositing some in secret Swiss bank accounts and spending more on lavish living and real estate purchases. Khashoggi is charged with mail fraud and obstruction of justice. It is alleged that he forged documents to help conceal the Marcoses ownership of four New York office buildings and an art collection bought with stolen funds. He concedes that he was ``foolish'' to get involved with the Marcoses, but contends he committed no crime because the document backdating occurred in 1985, the year before Marcos was ousted from power and a U.S. court froze all transactions involving the buildings. ``When you ask me why this trial is unfair, it is because they (the prosecutors) know all this,'' he said. ``Without me, they don't have a case. They want to get the Marcoses, by hook or by crook.'' Khashoggi said he believes Judge John F. Keenan eventually will dismiss the charges against him, but if not, he'll be acquitted by the jury. ``These people are not going to be unfair,'' he said. And he contended the trial is doing great damage to America's image in the Middle East. ``This case has become a symbol of fear,'' he said. ``I am trying to say, `Hey, guys, this is not America.' We will have our day in court and they will see that it is not America, but a corner street called New York.''
AP880424-0041 	X	A man who set his gasoline-soaked clothes on fire and walked down the aisle of a church during a prayer service died Sunday from his burns, though worshippers tried to save him by dousing the flames. The songs of a children's choir gave way to hysterical screams as worshippers at Friendship Baptist Church noticed Willie J. Boone, 41. Saturday night's musical program was almost over when ``I saw the children looking curious and I looked back'' from the first row, said the Rev. Jimmy L. Mills. ``I saw this young man coming up the middle aisle ablaze of fire.'' ``Most of (the children) went into hysterics,'' he said. ``It was a terrible tragedy.'' The pastor said he and deacons used a fire extinguisher to douse the flames on the man's clothes ``and asked him to go out and sit on the front porch and that's where he went until the police arrived.'' On the porch, Boone said, ``It's all right,'' and collapsed, Mills said. Boone suffered burns over his entire body except the soles of his feet, said patient representative Karen Hall at the Medical Center of Central Georgia. Mills, pastor of the downtown Macon church for 30 years, said Boone gave no clue to his motive and was a stranger to the 40 to 50 people in the church sanctuary.
AP900905-0131 	X	Armenia's Communist Party chief has threatened to quit the Soviet Politburo unless President Mikhail S. Gorbachev can restore order in the disputed region of Nagorno-Karabakh, news reports said Wednesday. Meanwhile, the Armenian parliament passed a resolution complaining that citizens of the predominantly Armenian territory located inside the neighboring republic of Azerbaijan are having their rights trampled upon, the Tass news agency reported. ``The Armenian population of Nagorno-Karabakh continues to be subject to terror on the part of Azerbaijani authorities, assisted by units of the Soviet army and Interior Ministry troops,'' Tass quoted the resolution as saying. A state of emergency is in effect in the mountainous region, part of Azerbaijan since 1923. Ethnic battles between residents of the two Caucasus republics over who should control the area have left more than 200 people dead the past two years. Vladimir Movsisyan, the Communist Party leader of Armenia, said in an appeal published in the republic's newspapers Wednesday that indifference and indecision on the part of the Soviet leadership have given Azerbaijan's leaders ``a free hand to pursue an anti-Armenian policy,'' according to the independent Interfax news service. It quoted him as saying misinformation circulated about Armenians' ``aggressive activity'' in Azerbaijan has put the two republics on the verge of war. Movsisyan, who as the republic's Communist Party leader is a member of the Soviet Politburo, threatened to resign unless the Nagorno-Karabakh issue is solved as soon as possible so that Armenian lives in the region are protected, Tass and Interfax reported. The president of Azerbaijan, Ayaz Mutalibov, also has accused the Soviet authorities of inaction in the dispute, and he has issued a different kind of threat _ that his republic may secede from the Soviet Union if the Kremlin does not act to ``normalize the situation'' in Nagorno-Karabakh. Mutalibov made the threat in an interview published Tuesday in the newspaper Sovietskaya Rossiya. Movsisyan said a natural gas pipeline to Yerevan, Armenia's capital, has been shut off, and freight trains have stopped arriving in the city of Idzhevan, costing the republic tens of millions of rubles. In addition, Azerbaijani authorities are forcing Armenians to leave their homes in Nagorno-Karabakh, in order to change the demography of the region, the Armenian parliament's resolution was quoted by Tass as saying. The parliament urged that Interior Ministry and Soviet army troops be deployed immediately along the borders of Nagorno-Karabakh and adjacent areas to restore Soviet authority and self-government in the area, Tass reported. Last week, the Armenian parliament banned the Armenian National Army, created last winter as a vigilante group to protect the mostly Christian population of Armenia from the mostly Moslem population of Azerbaijan. Lawmakers acted after the militant nationalist group was blamed for the shooting deaths of a member of parliament and another man. Gorbachev has demanded that militants in the republic disarm and disband paramilitary groups, but Armenian leaders say they can police their own population.
AP880908-0128 	X	Four white supremacists have pleaded guilty to federal charges they plotted bombings, robberies and other crimes to further their beliefs. The two Coeur d'Alene couples entered the pleas Wednesday night after reaching a plea agreement with prosecutors. The couples, David and Deborah Dorr and Edward and Olive Hawley, were scheduled to go on trial Monday. The Feb. 12 indictment accused them of committing a series of crimes in the Coeur d'Alene area in August and September 1986 aimed at advancing their white-supremacist group, Bruder Schweigen Strike Force II, or Order II. Besides raising money to finance its operations, the group sought to kill or intimidate opponents of their offshoot of the Church of Jesus Christ Christian-Aryan Nations, prosecutors said. They were accused of bombing an auto restoration shop, the home of a priest who was a leader in anti-hate group activity, and the federal building Coeur d'Alene. Prosecutors alleged the explosions were part of an aborted plan to rob a bank and a National Guard armory. All four pleaded guilty to racketeering or engaging in a continuing criminal enterprise from 1984 to 1987. Some also pleaded guilty to firearms or explosives charges or counterfeiting. Ryan approved an agreement with prosecutors that Dorr be sentenced to no more than 20 years in prison, Mrs. Dorr to no more than eight years, Hawley to no more than 12 years and Mrs. Hawley no more than a suspended six-year term. He scheduled sentencing for Oct. 26. A fifth defendant, Robert Pires, has pleaded guilty to charges including a 1986 slaying and bombings and attempted bombings in Coeur d'Alene. Pires was sentenced to 25 years in prison and has been cooperating with prosecutors.
AP880709-0176 	X	Sixty-four men survived the Piper Alpha oil rig fire by leaping into the burning sea in the dark, but they had to leave behind more than 100 colleagues trapped and screaming for air in the inferno. ``I am one of the lucky ones,'' Harry Calder said in an interview Friday. ``I am pretty sore, I am badly bruised and my hands are burned. But at least I'm alive. I have lost a lot of friends.'' Seventeen bodies have been found and 166 men are presumed dead in the North Sea oil field where the rig exploded Wednesday night. At least 100 men died screaming for help, trapped in their sleeping quarters after surviving the first explosion, said Calder, a 35-year-old helicopter landing officer. The workers were in the smoke-filled galley of the platform, which was plunged into darkness when the emergency lighting failed, he said in an interview Friday.
AP900521-0095 	X	A gunman shot two people this morning and took one of his victims hostage in a church, police said. The man shot the people about 8:45 a.m., said Julie Wolinksi, a police spokeswoman in Melbourne Beach. He then barricaded himself inside the Episcopal church, Saint Sebastian-By-The-Sea. No one else was believed to be inside the church, she said. But reporters at the scene heard a man and a woman screaming, leading them to believe two people were being held hostage. The gunman's identity was not immediately known, officials said. The other shooting victim was taken to the Holmes Regional Medical Center, Ms. Wolinski said. The victim, Diane Conarroe, was in surgery with two gunshot wounds to the abdomen, said hospital spokeswoman Valerie Davis. The 43-year-old woman was expected to be in surgery for most of the afternoon, Davis said. Police surrounded the church as a hostage negotiator from the Brevard County Sheriff's Office tried to talk the gunman into releasing the hostage and surrendering, she said. Homes and schools were being evacuated in this town of 2,600 people, 25 miles south of Cape Canaveral, authorities said.
AP901010-0187 	X	Chinese leaders are cautiously planning a partial return to collective farming in hopes of raising productivity, according to an official newspaper report Wednesday. Ten years after land was distributed to individual farming households, Communist Party and government officials recently decided that ``household contracted lands should be redistributed ... and production conducted under a unified plan,'' the English-language China Daily said. China's reformist leaders dismantled the commune system a decade ago, allowing the rural economy to return to a family farming system that allowed farmers to sell some crops on the free market. As a result, grain production jumped by one-third and rural incomes tripled. But that growth has stagnated. China's farmable land is shrinking annually because of industrial development, and plots worked by individual farmers, averaging 1.5 acres, are too small for efficient mechanized farming. At the recent national meeting, party and government officials decided that ``conglomerates in charge of supply, production and sales'' would be established to make large-scale mechanized farming possible, the China Daily reported. It did not say what incentives farmers would have to join the conglomerates or give details about how the conglomerates would be set up. Supporters of such a system have carefully avoided calling the collectives ``communes,'' which evoke unpleasant memories of extreme poverty and the leadership's ``leftist mistakes.'' Aware that the change is likely to be unpopular among China's 80 million peasant population, officials stressed the household contract system was not being abandoned. Rather, it would be incorporated into a ``two-tier rural economy'' along with the collective sector. Redistribution will be done with the consent of the majority of local farmers, the report said. Calls have been heard for several years for a return to large-scale farming. Experts say the family farmer who brought prosperity to many rural areas has outlived his usefulness and must make way for large-scale mechanized farming.
AP901106-0092 	X	All nations must face up to the threat of a climate disaster and take steps against global warming, Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain said Tuesday. Thatcher, in a keynote speech to a United Nations meeting of ministers on the issue, said much more research is needed but a ``clear case for precautionary action'' exists now. ``It is a race against time ... to save our planet,'' French Prime Minister Michel Rocard told the officials from some 120 countries, including more than 80 ministers. In an appeal aimed in good part at the United States and the Soviet Union, Mrs. Thatcher demanded all countries begin work on binding commitments to rein in rising pollution by ``greenhouse gases.'' The limits would be for a planned global treaty on climate change to be ready in 1992. But there were increasing signs Tuesday that ministers, contrary to European Community hopes, will fail to agree on targets or deadlines so as not to endanger Wednesday's conference-ending declaration. ``Not to come to a result would be a very bad signal,'' German environment minister Klaus Toepfer told reporters. ``We have to do our best to come to a minimum compromise.'' Environmental groups said the draft declaration looks ``more like a non-declaration as all the crucial points on carbon dioxide reduction targets, dates and the urgent call for immediate action have been removed.'' Carbon dioxide pollution, much of it from burning fossil fuels, is seen as the leading cause of global warming. Methane and chlorofluorocarbons are other heat-trapping ``greenhouse gases.'' Americans and Soviets are the biggest contributors of man-made carbon dioxide emissions. Washington opposes immediate targets against carbon dioxide pollution, saying more scientific data is needed to justify the enormous costs involved in changing ways of life. The Soviet Union, Saudi Arabia and some other countries also have reservations. China sounded a Third World note of reluctance. ``Measures to protect the global climate should not hinder the economic development of developing countries,'' delegate Song Jian told the two-day meeting. Mrs. Thatcher, who holds a chemistry degree, warned climate change could occur more quickly than current computer models suggest. ``Should this happen it would be doubly disastrous were we to shirk the challenge now.'' Many steps would be ``sensible in any event'' - improving energy efficiency, developing alternative sources of supply, reforestation, rethinking industrial processes and tackling the waste problem, she said. Mrs. Thatcher and Rocard followed the lead of scientists from some 100 countries, who met last week in the conference's first part. The experts made plain that global warming undoubtedly exists and appealed to politicians for immediate measures. Scientists say global temperatures could rise at their fastest rate in 10,000 years next century if nothing is done. Among the feared upheavals are rising sea levels that would displace coastal dwellers, desertification and vast changes affecting wildlife. Bikenibeu Paeniu, prime minister of Tuvalu, told delegates they may hold the key to the ``continued existence'' of his South Pacific coral atoll group and other islands. ``We in the Pacific, the Carribbean and elsewhere have done the least to create these hazards but now stand the most to lose,'' he said.
AP900628-0199 	X	Some cities have decided to make downtown look like downtown again. They are doing away with their pedestrian malls, bulldozing the kiosks, trees and benches that replaced streets 20 or 30 years ago. They are welcoming back the fumes and noises of once-banished traffic. And some that haven't decided to return to the downtown of an earlier time are thinking about it. It turns out, said Lawrence O. Houstoun Jr., that converting traditional shopping districts into a pedestrian malls worked _ but only for a while. Houstoun is an urban development consultant in Cranbury, N.J. Dry rot has set in again in many central cities, he said, because office buildings _ which provide many of the shoppers _ have been erected on cheap land too far away for a lunch-time shopping stroll. ``The pedestrian malls had some initial success because they were the first thing that looked good downtown, but they didn't deal with the basic problem,'' Houstoun said. ``The problem wasn't that people wanted to walk in the streets; the problem was that downtown wasn't convenient or became inconvenient.'' Houstoun said studies have established that at lunch time, people will walk for nine minutes _ or about three blocks _ from their office. If stores are a block or two further away, they will be shunned, no matter how pleasant the environment. So, a number of the 200 or so cities that took the plunge in the late 1960s and the 1970s have undone or down-scaled their malls or are considering it, Houstoun said. He reported his findings in Planning, the magazine of the American Planning Association, and elaborated in an interview. Kalamazoo, Mich., which called itself ``Mall City,'' is reopening two blocks of its four-block mall to traffic. Eugene, Ore. removed the kiosks, playgrounds, restrooms and plantings from two blocks of its pedestrian mall. New London, Conn. brought back the cars. Three Illinois cities _ Danville, Champaign and Rockford _ have given up their malls. Norfolk, Va. and St. Joseph, Mo. kept theirs, but in smaller configurations. In the capital of New Jersey, cars will return to part of Trenton Commons. Springfield, Mo. welcomed cars back to much of its mall, too. ``We drive around the square again,'' says Bob Turner, acting director of public works. But some cities find their mall still work well. The mall in Boulder, Colo., is a standout. And traffic-choked New York City is considering going the mall route by ``pedestrianizing'' 10 blocks of Broadway. A number of cities that would like to take out their pedestrian malls can't afford to, said Houstoun, a former official in the Departments of Commerce and Housing and Urban Development in Washington. Often the malls were built with federal grants; no federal money is available to undo them. Houstoun said it can cost $500,000 to $750,000 a block to take out the ``pedestrian features'' that give urban malls their character. The old, urbane, upper-middle-class Chicago suburb of Oak Park, Ill., spent $3.1 million in 1988 to take out a mall that had been built 16 years earlier for $1.4 million. In the process, 84 quarter-of-a-century-old pin oak trees were removed. Those that could be saved were replanted elsewhere in the community of 55,000. But ``it absolutely was not a mistake,'' to build Oak Park Mall in the first place, said Christine Burdick, executive director of Downtown Oak Park. ``It helped stabilize what in 1972 had been a declining retail center and helped us maintain a viable retail business,'' she said. ``It worked, it just became obsolete.'' Adds village manager Neil Nielson: ``It served a life, like anything else.'' Most Oak Park residents liked their mall, no matter what merchants felt. At the very time that streets, curbs, sewers and lighting were being reinstalled, citizens voted 13,000 to 9,273 in a non-binding initiative against tearing out the mall. What happened was five department stores that had been mall ``anchors'' either went bankrupt or moved away, and business fell off, Mrs. Burdick said. ``Restreeting'' _ her term for it _ has helped business, Mrs. Burdick said. Sales for the last quarter of 1989 were up 24 percent over the previous year; 15 new retailers moved in. The occupancy rate inched up from 75 to 80 percent. In its dependence on anchors, Oak Park Mall more closely resembled on-the-highway regional shopping malls than do most downtown malls. Downtown malls, said Houstoun, typically rely on two different types of shoppers _ lower-income city residents and office workers _ whose wants are not alike, adding to the malls' difficulty in finding a market. Office workers are important shoppers. One study found that they spend an average of $1,800 a year downtown on food and goods, most of it during the lunch break. In retrospect, said Houstoun, cities might have been wiser to clear abandoned buildings from core areas, making sites available for office buildings that would have provided the customers for downtown stores. The pedestrian mall, he said, ``wasn't a remedy geared to the problem and removing them is not a cure for today's problems, either.''
AP880607-0251 	X	Japanese Prime Minister Noboru Takeshita and European Economic Community officials agreed Tuesday to step up trade contacts. Takeshita responded favorably to a suggestion by EEC Commission President Jacques Delors to create a panel of experts to discuss technical aspects of the EEC's rocky trade relations with Japan, officials said. Takeshita also stressed the need for Japan and the 12-nation EEC to widen their relations beyond trade to cultural and scientific sectors. ``The relationship between Europe and Japan is not very strong or as well developed'' as that between the United States with Europe and Japan, an aide to Takeshita told reporters. Senior EEC and Japanese officials meet annually. An EEC official said Delors believed regular meetings of experts could be useful in defusing trade tensions. The EEC is conducting numerous investigations of allegations of dumping by Japanese exporters. The EEC official, who asked not to be named, said EEC Foreign Trade Commissioner Willy De Clercq noted a ``remarkable improvement in trade relations'' between the 12-nation trade bloc and Japan, even though the EEC continues to register a large trade deficit with Japan. The gap shrank by 4 percent in 1987, but was still $25 billion. For his part, Takeshita said the EEC's plans to turn the 12 EEC states into a single, borderless market by the end of 1992 was good for Japan. But his aide quoted him as saying, ``The ... single market after 1992 should be the one which is open to the outside world'' and that the EEC should remove restrictions on Japanese exports. But he dismissed the idea of reciprocity in trade, an issue the EEC has given high priority in order to gain greater access for European goods to the Japanese market. ``We fully understand what (the EEC) Commission people are saying on reciprocity but Japan cannot agree to reciprocity on a sectoral basis,'' Takeshita was quoted as saying. Among specific trade issues discussed were Japan's high taxes on imported liquor and cars, the difficulties of foreign companies' bidding on Japanese public works projects and better access for EEC exports of telecommunications hardware and semiconductors. The EEC side also urged Japan to liberalize its banking sector. Officials said Delors stressed European banks must be able to establish themselves in Japan to make it easier to finance European exports and investments. De Clercq also called on Japan to quickly comply with a General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade ruling to amend an accord with the United States on trade in semiconductors. The world trade body has ruled the deal discriminates against the EEC. Takeshita also asked Delors' advice as to the best way to distribute $500 million Japan has earmarked as special economic assistance to Africa. ``We are aware that European countries have a long relationship with African countries,'' the aide quoted Takeshita as saying.
AP880608-0234 	X	Sinhalese extremists seeking to disrupt Thursday's regional elections detonated a bomb in a crowded market, killing four people, a Sri Lankan military official said. The official said Sinhalese radicals on Wednesday also fatally shot a candidate for the southern District Council. Authorities blamed the pre-election violence on the People's Liberation Front, an ultra-nationalist group from Sri Lanka's ethnic Sinhalese majority. District Council elections were called under terms of an Indian-brokered peace accord signed on July 29, 1987, and intended to end a separatist war by the Tamil minority. The war has cost more then 8,000 lives since 1983. Sinhalese radicals claim the pact makes too many concessions to Tamils and have vowed to kill anyone who supports it. A total of 166 candidates are competing for 53 seats on the newly created southern District Council, the seventh to be elected since April 28. Attacks by the Sinhalese radical group since India and Sri Lanka signed the peace agreement have taken the lives of 24 council candidates and more than 300 other people, including civilians and party workers. The bomb Wednesday exploded in the market at Weligama town, 75 miles south of Colombo. The military official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the four people killed were Sinhalese civilians. He said the candidate, 52-year-old A.S. Dayawansa, was shot to death while campaigning on Wednesday in the southern district. He was a member of the opposition United Socialist Alliance. Five deaths were reported Tuesday, including one candidate, a policeman and a civilian. Other violence in the past two days included the burning of government buses and several courthouses. Storekeepers said Sinhalese extremists told them to close Wednesday, and police said the group ordered a ``curfew'' on Thursday to keep people from leaving their homes to vote. Sinhalese, most of whom are Buddhists, are more than 75 percent of Sri Lanka's 16 million people and Tamils, predominantly Hindu, make up 18 percent. Tamils claim discrimination by the Sinhalese, who control the government and army, and rebels seek a separate homeland in the Tamil-dominated north and east to be called Eelam. The peace agreement called for Tamil rebels to lay down their arms in exchange for more autonomy in northern and eastern Sri Lanka, but the largest insurgent group continues to fight. India has more than 50,000 troops on the island trying to end the rebellion. It became involved because it is the region's dominant power and has 60 million Tamils in southern Tamil Nadu state. District Council elections in the Tamil-dominated areas have been delayed by the fighting, but officials hope to hold them next month.
AP900125-0070 	X	A judge today rejected an application to free a white former police captain allegedly involved in a secret terror network that harassed and assassinated anti-apartheid activists. The suspect, Ferdinand Barnard, has been held without charge since Oct. 31 as part an investigation into the assassinations last year of two white activists: Johannesburg university lecturer David Webster and Namibian lawyer Anton Lubowski. Pretoria Supreme Court Justice H.J. Priess rejected a bid by Barnard's father, a retired police colonel, to have the former narcotics detective released. In Windhoek, Namibia, another Supreme Court judge today set April 18 as the start of a murder trial for Donald Acheson, a suspected accomplice of Barnard who is accused of involvement in Lubowksi's killing. Lubowski, shot and killed outside his Windhoek home on Sept. 12, was the only white to hold a leadership position in Namibia's independence movement, the South-West African People's Organization. Webster, a well-known human rights activist, was shot and killed outside his Johannesburg home on May 1. Police Brig. Floris Mostert, in testimony opposing Barnard's release, said the investigation into the assassinations had uncovered the existence of ``a secret organization ... with members from all levels of society, which strives to terrorize left-wing radicals with the aid of violence and intimidation.'' Dozens of anti-apartheid activists have been the victims of unsolved murders in recent years. Many others have had their cars vandalized, and there have been bombings or arson attacks on offices of militant trade unions, civil rights groups, and opposition newspapers. Mostert said Barnard had been in contact with Acheson prior to Lubowski's murder. The brigadier also said: ``I must respectfully stress that the nature of my investigation is extremely sensitive and that the secrecy of the information which I possess is of the utmost importance.'' Police say the Webster-Lubowski case is not directly related to investigations of claims that death squads within the ranks of the national police force killed government opponents on the orders of high-ranking officers. One black ex-policeman, Butana Nofemela, has pleaded guilty to committing a murder as part of such a death squad, and a white former captain, Dirk Coetzee, has fled abroad after telling a newspaper he commanded a death squad. Thus far, legal steps have been taken only against Nofemela and Coetzee, not against other policemen implicated by them. This has resulted in widespread demands for an independent judicial inquiry and accusations that President F.W. de Klerk's government is engaged in a cover-up. Some of the white officers implicated by Coetzee appeared today at an inquest into the deaths of four young black activists in 1986. The policemen have denied allegations that the youths were murdered, saying they were shot in self-defense by a special counter-insurgency unit.
AP881215-0005 	X	The rage of Hong Kong these days is easy to spot. Just look for the tiny antennas, the telltale sign of the portable telephones so many people are carrying wherever they go. Despite price tags of $2,000 or more, the hand-held telephones have become a huge hit in this British colony, where doing business is a 24-hour preoccupation and new status symbols are always in demand. Downtown streets are filled with professionals ready for business with the cellular phones tucked under their arms or stuffed, antenna-up, into briefcases. Away from the financial district, people can be seen barking into the phones while eating in restaurants, riding public buses and ferries, or sitting in darkened movie theaters. Everyone from executives to proprietors of produce stalls can be seen chatting away. The Hong Kong Standard newspaper spotted a telephone in a recent 100-kilometer (62-mile) charity walk along a rural trail. ``In driving rain and a lashing wind, a young man was spotted eagerly and conspicuously talking into his mobile telephone,'' it said. ``In a more normal society one would expect (him) to hand the phone over to one of his seconds before starting the race. (But) a few kilometers down the track, the young man was spotted merrily informing the financial markets at large of his continued existence.'' The government estimates about 60,000 portable cellular telephones _ roughly six times earlier projections _ will be in use by the end of the year in this territory of 5.7 million people, said Deputy Postmaster General Henry Wise, whose department is in charge of telecommunications. While most cellular telephones sold in other countries are for use in cars, roughly three-fourths of the units sold in Hong Kong since the market opened three years ago have been the more expensive handheld models. ``We were amazed when the whole thing really took off in a great way,'' Wise said. Hutchison Telephone Co, which has sold about 26,000 cellular telephones, recently stopped sales for six weeks because demand was outpacing the company's capacity to handle all the calls. ``The market just caught everybody by surprise,'' said Peter Grant, president of China Telephone Co. Ltd., a rival firm. ``We're all frantically rebuilding networks.'' Harry Hui, a psychology lecturer at the University of Hong Kong, attributed the popularity of the telephones here in part to ``the importance of face. It's a status symbol.'' Wise believes the Hong Kong work ethic of doing business whenever and wherever possible is largely responsible for the tremendous sales. ``Virtually the whole day is part of the working day,'' he said. Although industry officials see no end in sight to demand for the telephones, their indiscriminate use in public places already is viewed as an irritation by some. ``People are becoming aware of the annoyance factor,'' acknowledged Grant. Several exclusive clubs demand that their patrons and guests check their telephones at the door.
AP880319-0138 	X	U.S. soldiers deployed on what Washington officials call a show of military support for Honduras and a training mission said Saturday they are ready for anything. ``We're prepared to do anything they ask us to do,'' Maj. Mike Nason of the 82nd Airborne Division headquartered at Fort Bragg, N.C., said at the Palmerola air force base. ``I don't want to speculate, but the 82nd Airborne is a combat unit. Anything can happen.'' Nason arrived in the first plane Thursday of an airlift of 3,200 American soliers sent by the Reagan administration to Honduras. They were dispatched after Nicaraguan soldiers entered Honduran territory in pursuit of U.S.-backed rebels known as Contras. U.S. officials say the troops will not engage in combat. They say the troops are in Honduras for a training mission combined with a show of force and support for the Central American nation. But Nicaragua's leftist Sandinista government has accused the United States of preparing to invade Nicaragua. President Daniel Ortega said last week his forces are ready to ``liquidate'' the U.S. troops. Nason, from Garden City, N.Y., said the American soldiers would be surprised if they are called upon to do anything other than demonstrate American support for Honduras. ``Our orders remain that we're here to train. We're not here to enter into combat,'' he said. The arrival of the 82nd Airborne and units of the 7th Light Infantry from Fort Ord, Calif., put U.S. strength in Honduras at about 6,900, according to Maj. Gary Hovatter, the public affairs officer for American troops in Honduras. The troops who had been here before the reinforcements were sent are assigned to various U.S. facilities and engaged in training exercises. President Jose Azcona Hoyo of Honduras asked for the additional U.S. troops in hopes of forcing a Nicaraguan retreat and he said Saturday he won't hesitate to ask for more U.S. assistance. Azcona has asked for a U.S. helicopter airlift to help him deploy Honduran troops in the mountainous Bocay border region where the Sandinistas crossed the frontier. Despite the tense situation, the American soldiers at the Palmerola headquarters were relaxed Saturday. Many said they looked forward to the training activities and nothing more. ``I like it. It's fun,'' said Pfc. Shane Lawson of Columbus, Ohio. ``You can't train like this in the States, so we came down here. And we get to train with Honduran troops.'' Sgt. Kenneth Martin Anderson said he was upset at protests back home over the deployment. ``They're protesting just to protest something,'' he said. `They don't understand that you can't have communists running free all over the place doing what they want to do. What happens if the United States gets attacked by communists?'' Anderson and Lawson were in a contingent of about 670 airborne soldiers in camouflage battle dress who climbed into Blackhawk and Chinook helicopters for the brief flight to their bivouack at the nearby base of Tamara. Hovatter said the U.S. troops were sent to four Honduran bases: Tamara, just north of the capital; San Lorenzo in the south; Juticalpa, about 65 miles northeast of the area where the Nicarguan incursion took place, and Palmerola, 40 miles west of Tegucigalpa. Nason denied Nicaraguan claims that the U.S. operation was designed to bring in equipment for the Contras in their 6-year-old war against the leftist Sandinistas. ``Wherever we go, the equipment goes. None of it will stay here,'' he said. Nason said the 82nd flew in two tanks, four Cobra combat helicopters, three light helicopters, more than 100 machine guns, a dozen 105mm howitzers and several thousand rifles. On the main highway through Tegucigalpa, people stopped to look at a convoy of about 25 trucks filled with U.S. soldiers. Reporters driving alongside the caravan asked the troopers where they were heading. ``Nowhere!'' one soldier shouted.
AP900417-0087 	X	Housing starts continued to fall in March from their January peak, the government reported Tuesday, but many analysts said the decline had bottomed out. The Commerce Department reported that starts of new homes and apartments fell 9.3 percent last month, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.32 million units _ a pace many analysts said probably would continue. ``We might see levels like we had in March during most of the rest of the year,'' said economist Thomas Holloway of the Mortgage Bankers Association. The drop was the sharpest since a 12.4 percent plunge in January 1989, but was expected after starts jumped 23.2 percent to an annual rate of 1.57 million units during January's record warm weather. They slipped to 1.46 million in February, still well above the level of the last 11 months of 1989 as unusually warm weather continued. ``It isn't so much that housing is plunging as it is a correction in the data to the bulge earlier this year which couldn't be sustained,'' said Allen Sinai, chief economist for The Boston Co. David Berson, chief economist for the Federal National Mortgage Association, noted that all of the decline was in single-family homes, which fell 12 percent to an annual rate of 1.02 million units. Nevertheless, Berson added, the March rate ``still is a very good number, better than most months of 1989.'' Single-family starts totaled 1 million last year. On the other hand, multifamily starts gained 0.9 percent to an annual rate of 306,000 _ ``up a tad, but still at an abysmally low number,'' said David Seiders, chief economist for the National Association of Home Builders. Apartment starts plunged 35.3 percent in February after a 37.1 percent jump the previous month. In addition to the weather, analysts had attributed the January gain to builders wanting to get construction under way before expensive new regulations designed to make apartments more accessible to the handicapped went into effect. Seiders blamed the ``incredible weakness'' in apartment starts on fair housing regulations for the handicapped that he said would add as much as $3,000 to the cost of multifamily units and on a construction credit crunch brought on by the August savings and loan bailout law. The biggest decline in starts was experienced the Northeast, where the real estate industry has been in the doldrums in recent months. They were down 37.8 percent, to 138,000 units, after advancing 32.1 percent in February. ``We though we had seen hopeful signs'' in the Northeast, Seiders said, ``but it clearly was a temporary, weather-based effect. Now it's showing it is the weakest housing component in the country.'' Other declines were posted in the South, down 11.5 percent to 524,000 units, and the West, down 0.5 percent to 376,000 units. The Midwest registered the only gain, up 6.8 percent to 293,000 units. Applications for building permits, often a barometer of future housing activity, fell 7.6 percent after dropping 25.2 percent the previous month. The 1.21 million applications were the lowest since 1.15 million permits were sought in October 1982.
AP900503-0218 	X	For nearly a decade, states in the Mississippi Delta region have pursued tough education reforms, and they are starting to get results. Last month, Kentucky Gov. Wallace Wilkinson signed legislation that will overhaul public education. The changes were enacted after the state Supreme Court in June found the public school system inequitable and unconstitutional. Spending per pupil varied district to district from $1,800 to $4,200. Now a state minimum, $2,900, has been established. In addition, the new Kentucky law calls for committees of parents, teachers and principals to make day-to-day school decisions. In Mississippi, Gov. Ray Mabus also signed legislation in April, continuing education reforms begun in the early 1980s that have raised standardized test scores for the last four years and increased accountability by requiring district ``report cards.'' One measure commits $182 million to curriculum improvements in the next three years; another calls for $800 million in bonds to replace aging school buildings and buses. Mabus has said he'll call a special legislative session in June to work out how to finance the plan. Arkansas' education reforms have reduced class sizes, added support personnel and expanded the curriculum, particularly language, science and math courses. A 1-cent sales tax hike and a teacher testing policy were among reforms pushed by Gov. Bill Clinton in 1983. Since then, his office says, 1,400 people who failed the teacher tests are out of the classroom, 17,000 more students are taking foreign-language classes than in 1983, 15 percent more students are attending college, dropout rates have improved and test scores are up. In Tennessee, a draft of Gov. Ned McWherter's 1991 package spells out 12 major goals, from requiring kindergarten to better preparing college freshmen to do college-level work. The plan also calls for ``performance audit teams'' in the state education department. Reforms in Louisiana have included reducing classroom size, rewarding successful schools and raising teachers' pay, though hard times in the state's petroleum industry have cut revenues. One effort Gov. Buddy Roemer is pushing is a $30 million computer-based reading lab. The states still fall behind much of the nation in per pupil spending. According to the National Center for Educational Statistics in Washington, the national average expenditure was $4,243 in 1987-88, the last year for which complete figures were available. The comparable state figures were: Kentucky, $3,011; Mississippi, $2,548; Arkansas, $2,989; Tennessee, $3,068; and Louisiana, $3,138.
AP880910-0012 	X	A plane used in fighting forest fires crashed near an airport outside this northwestern Spanish city, killing all four of its occupants, airport officials said. Officials said one of the motors of the plane apparently failed shortly after the aircraft took off Friday from Labacolla airport. The plane crashed into a forest nearby. The victims were two captains, one lieutenant and one non-commissioned officer of the Spanish Air Force. The Labacolla-based plane had been taking part in efforts to combat a forest fire in Orense province in northwestern Spain, officials said.
AP901130-0151 	X	A U.S. thrift regulator testified Friday that Sen. Dennis DeConcini broke the bounds of propriety - but four other senators did not - when they intervened on behalf of savings and loan owner Charles H. Keating Jr. Regulator Michael Patriarca, addressing the Senate Ethics Committee, drew the line between the behavior of DeConcini, D-Ariz. and four colleagues: John McCain, R-Ariz.; Donald W. Riegle Jr., D-Mich.; John Glenn, D-Ohio and Alan Cranston, D-Calif. Patriarca said it was wrong for a senator to attempt to ``influence, to change the outcome'' of an examination that was highly critical of Keating's Lincoln Savings and Loan. ``My personal view is Senator DeConcini did that,'' he said. ``It's not clear to me that any of the others did.'' The regulator was referring to the senators' conduct at an April 9, 1987 meeting with four San Francisco-based regulators - including Patriarca - who were responsible for the Lincoln investigation. Patriarca also said he would fault the senators generally, because they ``appeared to have made up their minds in advance'' that Keating was right and the regulators were wrong in finding serious problems at Lincoln. Patriarca's two days of testimony backed the assertion of his ex-boss, former Federal Home Loan Bank Board Chairman Edwin J. Gray, that DeConcini took the lead in trying to negotiate a deal on Keating's behalf. DeConcini denied that he sought a waiver for Lincoln of a rule prohibiting risky investments, in return for the thrift establishing a home mortgage loan program. Patriarca was questioned by Sen. Warren Rudman, R-N.H., one of six Ethics Committee members who will judge whether the five senators improperly intervened for Keating. Keating and associates donated $1.3 million to the campaigns and political causes of the five senators. The committee has held nine days of hearings in an effort to determine whether the money influenced the intervention. The hearing adjourned until Monday after a former member of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board testified he received calls from Cranston and DeConcini in April 1989 - immediately before the government takeover of Lincoln. In those calls, said Roger Martin, both senators urged the board to approve a sale of Lincoln rather than its seizure. The requests were rejected. All the senators except Riegle met on Keating's behalf with Gray on April 2, 1987 in DeConcini's office. When the chief regulator said he lacked details of the Lincoln investigation, the four San Francisco-based regulators including Patriarca, were summoned to the April 9 meeting. That also was in DeConcini's office and this time Riegle joined the group. Rudman asked Patriarca whether he thought DeConcini was ``out of line'' in the April 9 meeting, when he sought the waiver for Lincoln. ``Yes I did, senator,'' the regulator responded. He said that the proper way to challenge the regulation was through the courts and Lincoln ``had a retainer with every significant law firm in the country'' to do so. Lincoln in fact did, shortly before the meetings with regulators, file a court suit challenging the rule. The suit was not successful. Patriarca said McCain showed the ``least prejudice'' toward regulators at the April 9 meeting; DeConcini and ``perhaps Sen. Glenn seemed to have their minds made up pretty substantially'' and Riegle was ``in the middle.'' Another member of the committee, Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., asked if the senators were hostile at the meeting. ``I think it was hostile,'' Patriarca said. ``We were being dressed down.'' Helms then asked whether the senators expressed ``surprise or shock'' after the regulators informed them that serious problems - and possible criminality - were found at Lincoln, of Irvine, Calif. ``We didn't seem to be getting through to the senators,'' the regulator said. ``They did not seem to appreciate the seriousness of the situation that we were trying to convey to them.'' On Thursday, Patriarca said the senators became less aggressive when regulators said they would make criminal referrals to the Justice Department.
AP901001-0276 	X	Grain and soybean futures prices were sharply down Monday on the Chicago Board of Trade, as a result of increased harvest pressures and declines on the precious metal and energy markets. Wheat futures prices fell to levels from two weeks ago amid doubts the Soviet Union does not plan to buy subsidized wheat flour from the government, along with professional selling by major companies and near-ideal harvest conditions, analysts said. ``There's a very weak export outlook to buy grains,'' said Walter Spilka, an analyst with Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co. in New York. ``You're moving grains into positions to be sold and you don't have any ready buyers, so that's going to push prices lower.'' Soybean futures pushed toward double-digit losses as major corporations sold off their interest. Near-ideal weather conditions in areas where the crop is grown also added pessimism the entire harvest would be sold, Spilka said. Corn followed soybeans and wheat amid the same fears. At the close, wheat futures were 7} cents to 3\ cents lower with the contract for delivery in December at $2.70a bushel ; corn was 5 cents to 1{ cents lower with December at $2.23 a bushel; oats were 1{ cents lower to { cent higher with December at $1.19{ a bushel; soybeans were 11} cents to 5 cents lower with November at $6.06\ a bushel.
AP900726-0101 	X	Postmaster General Anthony Frank endorsed legislation Thursday to require child-proof packaging of mailed medicine samples, saying it could ``head off a disaster before it happens.'' The bill was inspired by an incident last March in Saline, Mich., in which a group of children ages 3 to 8 obtained sample packages of Tylenol gelcaps from an open mailbox area in an apartment complex. The Postal Service typically places mailed samples in open racks or on tables in the mail area of apartment buildings when the packages don't fit in mailboxes. The children, pretending the gelcaps were cocaine, were crushing them and apparently intended to inhale the powder. But an adult saw what was happening, confiscated the medicine and notified police. Frank said he had received no reports of children actually ingesting direct-mail medicine samples. ``We all have it in our power to head off a disaster before it happens and what a great feeling that is for a change,'' he told the House Subcommittee on Postal Operations and Services. ``We stand foursquare behind the bill.'' No opposition surfaced during the subcommittee hearing. Voicing support for the bill were Donnelley Marketing, the company that handled the Tylenol mailing; the Direct Marketing Association; the Third Class Mail Association; and two agencies of the U.S. Postal Service. The bill would require that pharmaceutical and hazardous household product samples sent through the mail be packaged in child-proof containers. The Postal Service would refuse to deliver samples not meeting the standard. James Douglas, director of the Saline Department of Public Safety, said about 110 sample packages of Tylenol gelcaps were taken from the children. The University of Michigan's poison control center later told police that as few as six of the gelcaps could cause serious, or even fatal, liver disease in a 40-pound child. That is the typical weight of children ages 3 to 5, Douglas said. An overdose of aspirin and similar drugs would not cause any readily observable symptoms such as vomiting or unconsciousness, he said. Poison control officials told him the only way to determine whether a lethal dosage had been consumed is to conduct a ``blood screening'' within six hours of the time the drug was ingested, Douglas said. ``This truly is a situation where a tightening of rules and regulations could prevent a threat to public safety,'' said Rep. William Ford, D-Mich., a co-sponsor of the bill. Donnelly Marketing already has adopted a policy requiring child-proof packaging of medicine samples it distributes, senior vice president Ellen M. Farley said. While supporting the legislation, she said its effective date _ Oct. 1 or 60 days after its enactment, whichever is later _ might not give manufacturers enough time to comply. An additional six months should be allowed, Ms. Farley said.
AP901026-0189 	X	The House approved the first overhaul of federal clean air laws in 13 years Friday night, requiring new pollution controls to sharply reduce urban smog, acid rain and industrial release of toxic chemicals. The 1,100-page bill passed by a vote of 401-25 and immediately was sent to the Senate. Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, D-Maine, scheduled a vote Saturday. The cost for meeting the new requirements eventually are expected to exceed $22 billion a year and affect virtually every segment of society. Many of the handful of congressmen who opposed the measure did so because of the burden imposed on Midwest utilities that will have to undertake expensive measures to curb pollutants that cause acid rain. But supporters hailed the legislation as the most far-reaching piece of environmental legislation to be considered by Congress in years. ``This bill will be the standard by which we will judge environmental legislation in the '90s,'' declared Rep. Mike Synar, D-Okla. Despite its lopsided approval, the bill was the product of months of intense bargaining by House members among themselves behind closed doors. The highly technical and far-reaching bill requires tighter emission controls on cars, cleaner-burning gasoline blends and pollution controls on businesses to combat urban smog. Smog-producing emissions from automobiles must be cut by 30 percent to 60 percent and gasoline sold in areas with smog problems must be 15 percent cleaner toward the end of the decade. More than 100 cities that are failing to meet federal air-quality standards will have to impose pollution-control plans to bring their air into compliance over the next five to 17 years, depending on the severity of the problem. The Los Angeles area is given 20 years. At the same time, the measure directs industry to cut toxic air pollution by 90 percent over the next eight years by installing new pollution-control equipment to capture 189 hazardous chemicals and requires coal-burning electric power plants to reduce chemical releases that cause acid rain by more than 10 million tons. The industrial Midwest will be hit hardest because plants in such states as Ohio, Indiana and Illinois rely heavily on high-sulfur coal and will carry the greatest burden of reducing sulfur dioxide emissions, which cause acid rain. Failure to meet the new federal requirements could open polluters to civil penalties of up to $25,000 a day. Criminal penalties may be sought against corporate executives for willful release of hazardous air pollutants that pose a serious health threat. Most of the new pollution requirements would be phased in over 10 to 15 years. The requirements for cleaner burning motor fuels and reductions in sulfur dioxide emissions from coal-burning power plants take effect by 1995. The clean-air requirements are expected to have widespread effects on society. Consumers are likely to pay slightly more for automobiles as well as gasoline and, in many of the Midwestern states, more for electricity. Small businesses and huge petrochemical plants alike will have to invest in pollution-control equipment and improve the monitoring of chemical releases. Cost estimates for the new controls have varied widely. The bill's supporters have said the legislation will cost the economy about $10 billion a year beginning in 1995 and about $22 billion by the year 2005, when most of the requirements will be in effect. Industry estimates have been much higher, with some studies predicting annual costs from the legislation by 2005 of more than $60 billion. Environmentalists have criticized the industry figures as being based on ``inflated estimates and extreme or false assumptions.'' The latest push for overhauling the 1970 Clean Air Act, which was last changed in 1977, began nearly 17 months ago when President Bush unveiled his proposal for cleaning up the nation's air, noting that for nearly a decade ``political paralysis has plagued ... progress against air pollution.'' But the task proved to be far from simple. It took three weeks of intense closed-door negotiations between Senate leaders and the White House to craft legislation that would satisfy divergent regional and economy interests affected by the bill. Finally the Senate passed a bill April 3 by a vote of 89-11. Six weeks later, the House approved its version 401-21 after also after working out scores of tradeoffs and compromises. But negotiations bogged down as the House and Senate tried to resolve differences in the two bills, each of which ran to nearly 700 pages. Facing increasing time pressures, negotiators for the two houses finally agreed on a compromise bill Monday, barely in time for final floor action before Congress adjourns.
AP880423-0100 	X	Here is the text of the Democratic Party's weekly radio address, as delivered Saturday by Senate Majority Leader Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia: This is Senator Byrd. I have good news. Congress is one step closer to passing the long-awaited trade bill. Last Thursday, the House of Representatives did its part. The trade bill passed overwhelmingly. Now, it is our turn in the Senate. Next week we are going to send the trade bill to the president for his signature. The trade deficit has got to come down. America's standard of living is being threatened. There are more of us working, but fewer of us owning homes. In most families, it takes two people working to keep the American dream in sight. And everyone is looking over their shoulders, worried about the next crash on Wall Street. Year by year, we have slipped further into debt. The trade deficit, like the budget deficit, is in triple digits. The trade deficit is up again. That means fewer jobs for Americans. With this trade bill America will be telling the world: ``Watch out, you've got competition.'' We will be telling the world that America expects fair competition: ``If you get access to our markets, we get access to yours.'' The trade bill is a positive step for America. It is a good bill. This bill creates programs for retraining workers, and gives the president new tools to open up markets to American products. It is not protectionist. The trade bill is comprehensive. It covers everything from exchange rates to better education for our children. The trade bill establishes a strong new export policy. At the same time, it protects American inventions from piracy by foreign firms. In addition, this trade bill prevents foreign investors from dominating industries vital to our national security. This trade bill is a reasonable response to a trade policy that hs gone awry. It opens up new markets, invests in people and ideas, and creates new opportunities for American industries and workers to work together _ to make America competitive again. We are at the 11th hour when it comes to dealing with our nation's trade deficit. This is no time to dilly-dally. America has got to get moving again. The trade bill gets us moving in the right direction. But all this is at risk if the president vetoes the trade bill. Despite months of working with the president, the Congress is still unsure of his support. The president is still waving his veto pen in the air. The president is upset that the trade bill includes one small section to protect workers from suddenly being laid off without notice. That's the issue: the plant-closing legislation that you have been hearing about. Our bill says if your factory is going to close and you are going to lose your job, you have a right to know 60 days in advance. That is simple justice, simple decency. Right now, many workers get only a week or two or a day or two of warning that their jobs are about to disappear. About a third of all American workers get no notice at all. The administration does not like this provision. I think the administration is dead wrong. What they are saying is this: ``It is OK to give golden parachutes to the big guys, but it is not OK to give the little guy a warning that he is about to lose his job.'' Is that fair? Of course not. I have seen the impact of factories suddenly closing in my own state of West Virginia. Men and women who have loyally worked for years for a company suddenly are handed pink slips without warning. ``Go stand on the unemployment line. All your hard work does not count.'' That's the message. The choice is simple. If the president stands up for America, he will sign the trade bill. There will be no veto. It will be a great day. If the president vetoes the trade bill, he will be sending another message: The big boys with the golden parachutes count more than the little guy. Mr. President, at the 11th hour, don't turn back the clock. We need new policies, not old politics. Mr. President, put away your veto pen and sign the trade bill when it comes to your desk.
AP881101-0178 	X	A Taiwanese man was convicted Tuesday on murder and robbery charges in a bloody street shooting that left two federal drug agents and two assailants dead. Su Re ``Michael'' Chia, 21, was not at the scene of the Feb. 5 robbery and shooting, but was an important figure in a drug deal that had been planned as a double-cross, prosecutors had argued. Chia delivered a gun, gave a ride to one of the alleged killers, and acted as a lookout for them, prosecutors said during his three-week trial. Jurors reached their verdict on their third day of deliberations. Chia, who could face life in prison, is to be sentenced Dec. 21. Chia was convicted in the deaths of Drug Enforcement Administration agents Paul Seema and George Montoya and attempted murder in the wounding of agent Jose Martinez. He was also found guilty of robbery and conspiracy to commit robbery. The undercover agents were shot after they agreed during a meeting at a Monterey Park restaurant to buy $80,000 worth of heroin. They drove to a quiet Pasadena street to conduct the transaction. However, two men got into the undercover agents' car and robbed and shot them, then fled to a waiting car where a third man drove them away, with backup agents and police in pursuit. Investigators later said the killers planned the double-cross robbery from the start and did not know they were dealing with DEA agents. After a brief chase, the car was stopped in San Marino and Michael Sun, 17, and Wen Hui Kow, 27 were killed in a shootout. Win Wei ``William'' Wang, 19, was shot eight times but survived. Wang is charged with first-degree murder with special circumstances that could lead to the death penalty if he is convicted. When police picked up Chia after the shooting, they found bullets, handcuffs, a clip that fit one of the guns used in the agents' shooting, and three ski masks in his car. ``He delivered one of the murder weapons the night before, and knew about the robbery plan,'' Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Clymer said of Chia. ``He knew about the robbery plan, and took Wang to the apartment of one of the other shooters.'' Defense attorney Brian O'Neill contended that authorities lied and altered reports after Chia's arrest to make their case against him.
AP900403-0092 	X	The government's main economic forecasting gauge plunged 1.0 percent in February, its steepest drop in nine months, the government said Tuesday. But analysts said the decrease was misleading. The Commerce Department said Tuesday its latest Index of Leading Economic Indicators _ designed to forecast economic activity six to nine months in advance _ wiped out three months of increases with the largest decline since a 1.1 percent fall last May. But analysts said the report was an aberation caused by a record 25 percent drop in building permits in February from January's 26.8 percent gain as builders took advantage of warm weather and tried to beat deadlines for new government regulations. ``It would have been down just 0.2 percent without the distorting effect of the building permits,'' said David Jones, an economist with Aubrey G. Lanston & Co., a government securities dealer in New York. Gilbert Benz, an economist with the Swiss Bank Corp. in New York, said the gauge would bounce back next month to its levels of late 1989 and early 1990. The index rose 0.1 percent in November, 0.4 percent in December and 0.2 percent in January. Nevertheless, seven of the 11 statistics in the index were down which analysts interpreted as meaning a soft economy, particularly in the manufacturing sector. ``February's leading indicators show a substantial industrial rebound is unlikely to occur in the next six months,'' said William K. MacReynolds, forecasting director for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. But Jones added, ``Recent signals suggest that while the goods-producing sector is still flat, it's not getting any worse and there's no evidence that its weakness is spreading to other sectors.'' According to a recent survey of 51 top economists by Blue Chip Economic Indicators in Sedona, Ariz., the gross national product _ the nation's output of goods and services _ will avoid a recession and grow 1.7 percent in 1990. But the survey concluded that the economic outlook ``remains the most sluggish since the recession year of 1982.'' The economy grew 3 percent last year, although it slowed to 1.1 percent in the final quarter. In addition to building permits, other statistics contributing to the index's decline in February were faster business delivery times, lower stock prices, a decline in plant and equipment orders, a decrease in the price of raw materials, a decline in the backlog of manufacturers' unfilled orders and a drop in an index measuring consumer confidence. Three of the components were positive, including an increase in orders for consumer goods, a gain in the money supply and a drop in weekly unemployment claims. One indicator, the length of the average workweek, was unchanged. The various changes left the index at 144.0 percent of its 1982 base of 100. The index fell 0.6 percent from September through February after declining 0.5 percent the previous six months.
AP880715-0092 	X	Nevada's Supreme Court, which banned use of police decoys who pose as drunks with cash hanging from their pockets, says it's OK if the decoy is alert, well-dressed and more of a ``logical target'' for thieves. The high court Thursday rejected an appeal from Vincent DePasquale, convicted in Las Vegas of larceny after a police decoy operation in 1983. A plainclothes policewoman was used as a decoy, carrying a shoulder bag in which a fake $100 bill was exposed, a zipper pulled tight against the money. DePasquale claimed entrapment. The Supreme Court said it has ruled against use of decoys when they pose as anyone who is helpless, drunk or feigning unconsciousness with money exposed temptingly from pockets. That ``degree of vulnerability'' suggested entrapment, or inducing someone to commit a crime he might not otherwise commit, the court said. In the DePasquale case, however, ``the exposed valuables were presented in a realistic situation, an alert and well-dressed woman walking on the open sidewalks in the casino area,'' the court said. ``The fact that the money was exposed simply presented a generally identified social predator with a logical target,'' the court added. ``These facts suggest that DePasquale was predisposed to commit this crime.''
AP901129-0263 	X	The U.S. dollar surged sharply against the Japanese yen Friday morning, while stock prices declined. The dollar was quoted at 133.35 yen at 11:30 a.m., up 3.20 yen from Thursday's close of 130.15 yen. After opening at 133.70 yen, it ranged between 133.00 yen and 133.85 yen in the morning. On the stock market, the 225-issue Nikkei Stock Average closed the morning session at 21,933.99 points, down 778.61 points, or 3.4 percent, from Thursday's finish of 22,712.60 points. In bond dealings, the price of the benchmark No. 119 10-year Japanese government bond slipped to 85.62 points as of midmorning, down from Thursday's close of 86.11 points. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from price, rose to 7.58 percent from 7.48 percent. The resolution adopted by the United Nations Security Council on Thursday authorizing the use of force to drive Iraq from Kuwait encouraged dollar buying, traders said. The dollar is seen as a safe investment in times of international tensions, while the yen is weakened by possibility of war in the Gulf because Japan imports virtually all its oil. The dollar's jump followed its overnight advance in New York, where it closed at 133.25 yen, as investors sought a safe haven in anticipation of the U.N. decision. Jumpei Ishii, a foreign exchange dealer at the Mitsui Taiyo Kobe Bank, said the dollar was staying close to its New York finish in the absence of fresh market-driving forces. He said investors were generally not taking big risks this late in the year. The lower yen and possibility of war in the Middle East helped push share prices down on the Tokyo stock market, said a dealer at Cosmo Securities, who spoke on condition of anonymity. He said a further plunge may follow because the Nikkei average has hit below the 22,000-point level. ``We see severe times ahead,'' he said.
AP900703-0174 	X	Just when teacher union chief Albert Shanker was starting to sound like a mellowed elder statesman, the old firebrand re-emerged with an attack on school boards and administrators he accuses of impeding reform. In his opening address Monday before 3,200 delegates at the American Federation of Teachers annual convention, Shanker virtually declared an end to the decades-old feud with the National Education Association. The two teacher unions are finally cooperating, seeing eye-to-eye on most key issues, he said _ though officials of both unions hastened to add that merger is at best a distant dream. Moments later, the president of the 744,000-member AFT, once considered so feisty that Woody Allen portrayed him as the cause of World War III in the film ``Sleeper,'' told reporters that school boards and administrators have failed to act on reform despite his union's flexibility. Insisting he was not trying to ``hurt'' or ``destroy'' school leaders, he said, ``What I'm shocked about is they're not acting like intelligent managers.'' Unless reform proceeds more quickly, Shanker warned, the public will turn to more drastic schemes like giving parents the right to use tax dollars to send their kids wherever they want, including private school. Such a plan already is in place in Milwaukee, he pointed out. Those were just his opening shots. Shanker indicated he'd have more to say on Wednesday in an address to the convention. National School Boards Association executive director Thomas Shannon replied by calling Shanker ``myopic and forgetful.'' ``One of the biggest obstacles to change is collective bargaining contracts. You can't always just change things,'' said Shannon, reached by telephone at his Washington office. ``We have no doubt about the sincerity of Al Shanker,'' said Gary Marx, spokesman for the American Association of School Administrators. ``And he should have no doubt about our commitment to better schools.'' The AFT gathering runs through Thursday. More than 8,000 delegates of the 2-million-member NEA will meet in Kansas City Thursday through Sunday. In another development, the AFT released a survey showing average teacher pay in the United States up 5.7 percent to $31,315. Alaska was tops with an average salary of $43,097. South Dakota ranked last at $21,300.
AP900313-0066 	X	Here are major elements of President Bush's aid package for Nicaragua and Panama. OVERALL FUNDS. Bush coupled a $300 million aid package to help Nicaragua speed the transition to democracy with a renewed request for $500 million in aid to Panama. He requested the Panama money earlier this year, but it got sidetracked in Congress on other issues. The Nicaragua and Panama money would be diverted from unspecified Pentagon programs. An existing $21 million would be used for emergency aid to Nicaragua, including food. Some of it would be used to help re-integrate the Contra rebels. TRADE. The president lifted a five-year-old trade embargo against Nicaragua. He also took steps to allow Nicaragua to resume shipping sugar to the United States and to make that nation eligible for duty-free treatment for a variety of other products. SUPPLIES. Some $60 million would be earmarked for providing critical agricultural supplies, petroleum and medical supplies. EMPLOYMENT PROGRAMS. $10 million would help pay for ``emergency employment programs,'' including ones designed to help turn soliders into farmers. RESETTLEMENT. Some $45 million would go toward helping speed the repatriation and resettlement of the U.S.-backed Contra forces and other refugees, and an additional $1 million would be used for technical assistance in restructuring the economy. INTERNATIONAL FINANCE. Some $50 million would be used to help Nicaragua pay off debt to the International Monetary Fund and other international financial institutions. An additional $75 million would go toward helping to prop up the Nicaraguan currency to help restructure the economy and aid the country with its balance-of-payments imbalance. PROJECTS. About $60 million would help pay for such projects as bridge, road and highay repair and refurbishing schools and hospitals. FURTHER AID. Bush said he would later propose an additional $200 million to be used in the fiscal year that begins next Oct. 1, with details to be announced later
AP900327-0242 	X	Rep. Dan Rostenkowski, the futures industry's most powerful ally in Congress, has all but conceded defeat in a battle over who should regulate trading of at least some types of futures contracts. Rostenkowski, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, said ``the cards are stacked'' against the Chicago Board of Trade and Chicago Mercantile Exchange. The two dominate global futures trading and favor continued oversight by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission rather than by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Illinois Democrat also said Congress appears to favor a merger of the two federal regulatory agencies over proposals to transfer to the SEC jurisdiction over only the financial futures markets or over stock-index futures alone. ``If there's any movement at all with respect to partial consolidation, there will be total consolidation,'' Rostenkowski said. ``I think the cards are stacked against the members of the Chicago trading faction.'' Rostenkowski commented on the situation in a meeting Monday with the Chicago Tribune's editorial board. His remarks were reported in Tuesday's editions. The CFTC currently regulates all futures trading. Leaders of the Chicago exchanges fear the SEC, which oversees stock and bond trading, would be a stricter regulator whose actions could raise the cost of trading futures in the United States, driving business overseas. Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady and SEC Chairman Richard Breeden favor giving the SEC at least some of the CFTC's regulatory authority. The Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the world's largest market for stock-index futures, is opposed to any transfer of jurisdiction, said spokesman Andrew Yemma. ``The position advocted by some in Washington of shifting jurisdiction to the SEC, we just don't consider that a negotiable matter,'' Yemma said in a telephone interview. The battle over jurisdiction of the industry stems in part from the government's investigation of illegal trading practices at the Merc and Board of Trade. Forty-eight people, mostly traders, have been indicted in the probe, prompting criticism that the CFTC has been lax in policing the exchanges. The turf battle also is rooted in the belief among some experts that stock-index futures trading increases volatility in the stock market. Stock-index futures are contracts that represent baskets of stocks. Rostenkowski portrayed the fight as reflecting a rivalry between New York and Chicago over dominance of the nation's financial markets. ``This shows the strength of the New York operators,'' he said, noting that Brady, former head of a powerful Wall Street firm, ``is part of the Eastern establishment.'' Sen. Alan Dixon, D-Ill., another futures industry ally, on Monday introduced a compromise bill that would put a member of each agency on the counterpart regulatory body. ``I think cross-membership is a good idea to give each agency a better appreciation of the issues the other has to face,'' Dixon said. The measure ``does not call for fundamental restructuring of our regulatory structure,'' he said, noting such restructuring is unnecessary. The debate over jurisdiction is likely to heat up Thursday, when top regulators are expected to testify before a Senate subcommittee headed by Sen. Christopher Dodd, D-Conn. Dodd has said he favors shifting regulation of stock-index futures to the SEC from the CFTC.
AP900908-0018 	X	Law enforcement agencies must spend more time and money fighting Asian crime syndicates, which are becoming one of the most powerful criminal forces in the United States, the FBI director says. Asian organized crime groups traditionally choose victims in their own ethnic community, FBI Director William Sessions told a gathering of business leaders Friday. ``Now they are extending their tentacles out to the rest of American society,'' he said. ``Indeed, Asian crime groups are networking and interacting not only with each other but with La Cosa Nostra and Colombian drug cartels as well,'' he said. The FBI first became aware of the extent of Asian organized crime when agents seized 900 pounds of 90 percent pure heroin worth more than $1 billion in February 1989, Sessions said. ``Unfortunately, Asian criminal organizations are gaining larger and stronger footholds around the country,'' Session said. Japanese, Vietnamese and Chinese organized crime groups are the strongest in the United States, he said.
AP880722-0163 	X	The leaders of Greek and Turkish Cypriots in Cyprus will meet in New York next month for talks aimed at resolving problems in the divided nation, Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar said today. U.N. officials said Georges Vassiliou, president of the Republic of Cyprus, and Rauf Denktash, president of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, will visit New York for talks Aug. 24. ``The leaders of the two sides in Cyprus have accepted my proposal for resumption of talks to negotiate a settlement of all aspects of the Cyprus problem,'' Perez de Cuellar said in a brief news conference. He did not elaborate on his proposals for peace in Cyprus, which has been divided since Turkish troops invaded in 1974 and captured the northern third of the island. Turkish Cypriots, who comprise one-fifth of the island's 650,000 people, have formed their own breakaway state, headed by Denktash, in the Turkish- controlled territory. Several rounds of talks between Turkish and Greek Cypriot leaders, under U.N. mediation, have failed to resolve disputes over the form of a federation and withdrawal of about 29,000 Turkish troops.
AP901207-0129 	X	Final payments totaling about $100 million are going out to states as their share of 1990 national forest sales receipts, the Agriculture Department said Friday. F. Dale Robertson, chief of the Forest Service, said the money is in addition to a preliminary payment of $246 million which went to the states on Sept. 19, bringing the total for the fiscal year that ended on Sept. 30 to more than $346 million. By law, 25 percent of the revenues collected by the Forest Service for the sale of timber and other use of national forest resources must be returned to the states where the forests are located. Actual receipts in fiscal 1990 totaled $1.38 billion. The states are required to use the funds for schools and roads. Oregon is the biggest recipient of total forest receipts for 1990 with $150 million, followed by California, $64 million, and Washington, $37 million.
AP880219-0067 	X	Human rights violations have increased under President Corazon Aquino's administration and the United States shares responsibility, a leftist social action group charged today. Meanwhile, suspected Communist rebels ambushed and killed a police informant early today in Manila's Tondo district, a stronghold of urban guerrillas. Petrolino Lim suffered three gunshot wounds and died a few hours later in a hospital, police said. The Philippine Alliance of Human Rights Advocates said it would file a petition with the U.N. Commission on Human Rights in New York asking it to condemn the U.S. and Aquino governments for ``gross and systematic violations of human rights of the Filipino people.'' Alvaro Senturias, an alliance official, told a news conference that the petition would show that ``human rights violations have increased under the Aquino government.'' The alliance distributed copies of the petition, which cited numerous specific allegations of abuses, including murder, the bombing of civilians and forced evacuation of villagers. Most of the incidents stemmed from the government's effort to step up the war against Communist rebels' 19-year-old insurgency _ employing armed vigilantes, for example, the group said. There was no immediate comment from the government, which came to power nearly two years ago on the promise of restoring human rights after 20 years of authoritarian rule under ousted President Ferdinand Marcos. The alliance, an umbrella group for several leading church-affiliated human rights groups, says in the petition that the United States ``has intensified its intervention in the counter-insurgency program.'' ``The Aquino government has become more subservient to the dictation of the U.S. policy makers and counter-insurgency experts,'' it says. The alliance said that despite its stated commitment to human rights, the Aquino government had made little effort to punish those in the military who had committed abuses under the Marcos administration. The military has said that many of the church-affiliated groups that comprise the alliance are communist-infiltrated. It says they unfairly blame soldiers for abuses without criticizing similar actions by the rebel New People's Army. Mrs. Aquino was swept to power in a February 1986 military-civilian uprising that toppled Marcos, who lives in exile in Hawaii.
AP900125-0126 	X	A woman is suing a school district for locking her 13-year-old son in a cafeteria closet for three school days for fighting. Frances Allison said her son, Gary DeWayne Morris, has nightmares and refuses to sleep without a light since the incident last March. She is suing the Elmore City School district and a former principal for $100,000. The lawsuit, filed in December, says the boy was kept in the 4-by-5-foot closet from 8:25 a.m. to 2:45 p.m., that meals were served to him and that he had to urinate in a bottle. ``Imagine what they would have done to me if someone had come to my house and noticed Gary in the closet,'' Ms. Allison said. ``They'd put me in jail and take away my kids.'' Delbert Handke, district superintendent, said today that the boy was allowed out to use the bathroom. He said the incident occurred before he became superintendent. The school district said Ms. Allison consented to an in-house suspension. Ms. Allison said the principal told her such a suspension would occur in a classroom away from other students and would be supervised by a teacher.
AP880921-0220 	X	A company that keeps tabs on the aircraft industry reports jet aircraft orders are booming as commercial airlines worldwide modernize their fleets with more fuel-efficient aircraft. The company, Forecast International, says more than 3,400 aircraft worth $114 billion are either on order or on option to order, most to be delivered over the next six years. In 15 years of tracking aircraft developments, ``I've never, never seen a replacement cycle like this,'' said company President Edward M. Nebinger. He said Tuesday airlines are ordering new planes because they can save 20 to 25 percent on fuel costs with newer models, with fuel being an airline company's largest operational expense. Nebinger also said the industry had weathered an era of cutthroat competition, prompted partly by the deregulation of the industry a decade ago, that has seen less-efficient carriers fold amid a series of mergers and consolidations. ``The survivors are economically stronger,'' he said. Newer models also reduce the risk of metal fatigue, which literally can cause a plane to fall apart. Nebinger recalled this year's Aloha Airlines incident, when the entire front section of the cabin roof flew off in flight, due to fatigue cracks. That plane had made 90,000 takeoffs and landings, he said. The Aloha Airlines incident and the recent crash of a 1973-vintage Boeing 727 jet in Dallas renewed questions about the reliability of aging aircraft, Nebinger said. His figures indicate the average age of a Boeing 707 is 20.3 years, while the average age of a Boeing 727 is 15.4 years. The average age of a McDonnell Douglas DC-8 is 21.4 years and the average age of a DC-10 is 12 years. Forecast International maintains computer data on aircraft inventories worldwide. Nebinger said jet planes are the last major items that the United States exports and his data provide encouraging news as the United States attempts to trim its trade deficit. U.S. manufacturers are expected to deliver 1,738 new aircraft, worth about $72.5 billion, through 1994. Of that, $25.4 billion is destined for American airline companies, while the remaining $47.1 billion will go to foreign customers, Nebinger said. But he also said European companies, specifically Airbus Industrie, are taking an ever-increasing bite of the market away from U.S. giants like Boeing and McDonnell Douglas, which 15 years ago claimed virtually the entire world market. He said Airbus Industrie was expected to deliver 852 aircraft through 1995, while other European producers will deliver about 575. Much of those will go to countries other than the United States, but about $12.8 billion will go to U.S. operators, he said. On balance, Nebinger said, ``the U.S. still emerges as a very strong winner in the import-export balance, with exports to Europe exceeding imports by $13.2 billion.'' The impact on the U.S. trade deficit, he said, ``cannot be overemphasized.'' Boeing has 1,275 aircraft either on order or option to order. McDonnell Douglas has 349. Airbus Industrie has 852, while Fokker, based in the Netherlands, has 257, and Embraer of Brazil has 208, according to Nebinger's numbers. To support the orders his company has tracked, new engines needed through 1994 will be worth $24.7 billion, Nebinger said, of which U.S. manufacturers will produce $15.6 billion, or 63 percent.
AP900114-0055 	X	The Denver Broncos and the San Francisco 49ers earned a trip to the Super Bowl on Sunday behind superb passing performances by quarterbacks John Elway and Joe Montana, who wrote his name in the all-time NFL record book. Behind an almost-flawless Montana, the 49ers beat their NFC West-rival Los Angeles Rams 30-3 for the NFC championship in San Francisco and a chance at becoming the first repeat Super Bowl winner in a decade. Montana, who passed for 156 yards in a 21-point second quarter that broke the game open, had a 20-yard TD pass to Brent Jones and an 18-yarder to John Taylor, his 30th and 31st in postseason. That broke the record of 30 by Pittsburgh's Terry Bradshaw and sent the Niners on to New Orleans, where in two weeks they will be trying to match another standard set by Bradshaw and the Steelers with their fourth Super Bowl victory. Pittsburgh was the last team to win two straight Super Bowls, in 1979 and 1980. In Denver, the Broncos earned their fourth shot at the Super Bowl with a 37-21 victory over the Cleveland Browns, whom they've beaten three times in the AFC championship since 1987. Elway enjoyed his best game of the season and his best ever in the playoffs, completing 20 of 36 passes for 385 yards and three touchdowns. He took Denver on scoring drives of 82, 80, 80 and 60 yards.
AP880705-0041 	X	President Fidel Castro has enhanced his image on human rights by releasing hundreds of political prisoners, but dissidents say thousands more remain in jail or are ostracized for opposing the regime. Communist authorities have nearly halved the dissident population in Cuban prisons since Cardinal John O'Connor of New York asked Castro to release 433 people charged with political crimes, said Bienvenido Avierno, a Foreign Ministry official. O'Connor visited Cuba in April. Former political prisoners are among the 300 or so Cubans leaving Havana each month aboard charter flights that depart four times a week for Miami. Asked if the releases benefit the government by letting it purge dissidents, Avierno said, ``Sure, we are maintaining these guys.'' One dissident here says the government has only become more sophisticated in curbing its domestic opposition. ``Everything is repressive here,'' Ricardo Bofill, president of the banned Cuban Human Rights Committee, said in a recent interview at his one-room apartment in the Havana suburb of Guanabacoa. ``Their tactics have changed. Now they use mobs and press campaigns.'' Bofill, a Communist Party member before Castro came to power in 1959, has been jailed several times for speaking out against the government. He has stayed at home for the past four months, saying he fears for his life. ``There are death threats. I have been identified in Cuba as the head of the counterrevolutionaries, the No. 1 enemy,'' Bofill said, sitting in a rocking chair in his room. The Communist Party newspaper Granma devoted several pages in April to discrediting Bofill. ``He is totally twisted and imbued with double-dealing lies, faking, deception and, especially a monstrous ego and unquenchable thirst for fame and notoriety,'' it said. Bofill's group compiles and distributes reports of government abuses. He showed a reporter a handwritten prison pamphlet called ``Dawn,'' which detailed ``systematic cruelty.'' He said Cuba has 10,000 political prisoners. Amnesty International, the London-based human rights group, put the number at 450 in its 1987 annual report. The Castro government tolerates Bofill, often citing his criticisms as proof Cuba has freedom of expression. Avierno flatly denies there are any rights abuses in Cuba: ``The people, for the first time in their lives, have the arms. If they didn't like the system they could use them.'' Bofill said he does not oppose the government, but rather its tactics: ``This is not a fight against the system, it is against an unjust order. The basic rights, the right to life, is not guaranteed.'' In Cuba, only state-run news media are allowed to operate and the government decides who can leave the country and who can return. Bofill displayed his identification card, a booklet resembling a passport, and showed the government stamp that indicates he has applied for permission to leave the country. He said the stamp identifies him and thousands of others as malcontents. Roberto Bermudez, 32, a painter, said his opposition to the government has meant he can't exhibit his paintings. Sebastian Arcos, a former professor of dentistry and ex-political prisoner, said thousands of Cubans depicted as social outcasts are unable to find work. Cuba's socialist policies mean free and often model health care and education. The government says its provision of these social services constitutes a human right. ``This is a country where we have education, health, a country where drugs, especially hard drugs, are unheard of. No child needs to leave his studies to help his family. Violence is practically unknown. These are human rights,'' Jose Ramon Fernandez, vice president of the Council of State, said in an interview. Castro this year permitted the International Red Cross to examine Cuban prisons for the first time. A confidential report is being prepared. In addition, a United Nations human rights group is expected to inspect the prisons by September. The United States maintains no formal diplomatic relations with Cuba. But the U.S. Interests Section in Havana receives ``thousands upon thousands of letters from Cubans requesting political asylum in the United States,'' spokeman Jerry Scott said. An agreement renewed last year will allow 3,000 Cubans to travel to the United States as refugees. Avierno said the Cuban government agreed to free most of the prisoners requested by O'Connor ``if the United States guarantees they can go there.'' About 40 of that group will not be released because they ``are very dangerous people and they must fulfill their sentences,'' Avierno said. The maximum prison term is 30 years.
AP900207-0267 	X	Stock prices rallied in moderate afternoon trading, helped by program trading and a sharp boost in technology stocks. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials was up 30.63 points to 2,636.94 at 2 p.m. EST. The blue-chip indicator was down 0.45 point at noon and more than 20 points shortly after the opening bell. Advancing issues overpowered losers by a margin of about 7 to 5 on the New York Stock Exchange, with 815 issues up, 571 down and 481 unchanged. Volume on the Big Board came to 123.61 million shares. Analysts said high technology stocks helped revive the blue chip sector after a morning lull. Weakness in the bond market had pressured stocks in earlier trading. ``IBM is leading on the upside,'' said Dennis Jarrett, technical analyst for Kidder, Peabody & Co. ``It's just a case where people expect the market to pop.'' Analysts attributed the market's earlier weakness to ongoing worries about the Treasury's quarterly refunding and concerns about whether yields would have to be forced higher to attract Japanese investors. Foreign investors, particularly the Japanese, are an important source of funds into U.S. credit markets. The three-part auction, which started Tuesday with the sale of $10 billion in three-year notes, continued today with the sale of $10 billion in 10-year notes. The final auction on Thursday will comprise $10 billion of 30-year Treasury bonds. The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks was up 1.51 at 183.84. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index was 1.06 higher at 355.80. Among actively traded issues on the NYSE, IBM had jumped 2{ to 103{, Baxter International was up } to 24, Haliburton had gained 2&rsqb; to 44} and Federal National Mortgage was up 1&lsqb; at 34&lsqb;.
AP880219-0074 	X	The City Council has determined there may be a free lunch, but it won't be gourmet. The council on Thursday agreed to halt meals provided at its meetings by members of the Dallas Restaurant Association because of a possible conflict of interest if they consider measures affecting restaurateurs. The restaurants had been serving such fare as baby spring chicken and chocolate decadence cake since the council stopped a city food service that had cost $4,600 per year. Mayor Annette Strauss has written C. Gus Katsigris, president of the association, thanking the association for ``gracious and delicious luncheon service.'' But she said the lunches must be discontinued because they ``may be subject to misinterpretation.'' ``I'm disappointed,'' said Katsigris. ``I don't think we can influence anyone with a cup of soup and some salad.'' Although it appears the city will resume food service for the council members, not eveyone favors the idea. Councilman Jerry Bartos said he supports canceling free lunches altogether: ``I'd be just as happy with a sandwich on whole wheat out of my own pocket.''
AP881014-0137 	X	A Coast Guard helicopter rescued three people from a burning shrimp boat in the Gulf of Mexico today after the men radioed for help, officials said. Chief Petty Officer Mark Kennedy of Coast Guard Air Station-Ellington said the helicopter was dispatched to the 70-foot commercial shrimper, Master Warren, shortly after 3 a.m. when the three notified authorities that the vessel was ablaze some 13 miles southwest of Galveston. The boat was about five miles from shore, he said. ``They found the vessel fully engulfed in flames and the three people standing as far back as possible,'' Kennedy said. ``They seemed to be suffering from smoke inhalation, so after they were hoisted off the vessel they were taken to John Sealy Hospital in Galveston.'' Doctors there found the men in good condition and they were not admitted, Kennedy said. The owner and operator of the Master Warren, which is based in Port Arthur, was identified as Banh Prinh, and the two crew members were identified as Bob and Pan Nguyen, Kennedy said. Coast Guard crews continued to battle the fire aboard the shrimper this morning. ``Just about the time that the helicopter crew was hoisting the people, a patrol boat from the Coast Guard base in Galveston arrived at the scene and began fighting the fire,'' Kennedy said, adding that another boat was expected to arrive later and tow the shrimper to shore.
AP880928-0128 	X	The Connecticut Board of Parole today denied early release for the man convicted in the 1979 strangulation of a 14-year-old Stamford girl after an emotional plea from the victim's father. ``It is an insult to our daughter's memory that he could even be considered eligible for parole in less than nine years,'' Charlie Hoyt told the parole board during a brief hearing today at Somers State Prison. Bruce D. Williams Jr. pleaded guilty to first-degree manslaughter under a 1980 plea bargain agreement. A rape charge was dropped under the agreement. He was sentenced to 20 years to life in the death of Hoyt's daughter Sandy, who was lured to Williams' Stamford home with the promise of her first baby-sitting assignment. Last week, Hoyt presented the board's chairman, Richard Reddington, with more than 23,500 petition signatures urging that Williams be denied parole. Williams, 35, appeared briefly before the board today, asking the three-member panel to review his prison record and his efforts to obtain a college degree while in prison. He did not mention the girl's death. While addressing to the board, Hoyt broke down and had difficulty getting through his statement. ``If there are any doubts in your minds about this monster, then I suggest that the board take some time and view his videotaped confession,'' Hoyt said. It took the board members only 10 minutes in executive session to decide to deny Williams' bid for release. When they emerged, Reddington told Williams that because of the ``extreme seriousness'' of his offense, his request was being denied. The board scheduled another hearing for September 1994 with next potentional rlease date of Jan. 12, 1995. ``I'll be there,'' Hoyt said. In 1983, Hoyt's lobbying helped prompt legislators to enact a law that allows victims of most serious felonies to testify at an inmate's parole hearing. Hoyt began his petition drive aimed at keeping Williams behind bars hoping to collect 10,000 signatures, but ended up with more than twice that. ``People want to do something about the system,'' he said last week. Hoyt, who now lives in Fairield, says Williams called Sandy and said he was a doctor and needed someone to watch his child while he went on an emergency call. He took her to his house. Though Williams' young child was in the house, he tied Sandy to a bed, raped her and then strangled her, Hoyt said.
AP880831-0232 	X	The new director of the Miss America Pageant says there will be so many changes in Saturday's production that he fears raised eyebrows among fans of the 67-year-old tradition. But before anyone gasps, Leonard Horn is quick to point out that the swimsuit competition is still in place _ even though he believes there may be other means of proving a young woman's fitness. The winner still will take her stroll down the runway, a much longer runway this time, to the tune of ``There She Is.'' And the show still will feature an elaborate stage production, but new musical director Donald Pippin has created a livelier tempo that's not quite rock 'n' roll but just as spirited. Horn is more concerned about the long-time supporters of the pageant who bought seats even in the lean years when it was weathering attacks from feminists. Some of those supporters have unhappily learned they've been bumped from their box seats to make room for bigwigs representing the eight corporate sponsors and even some high-rollers from Atlantic City casinos. Horn also knocked out a production number and replaced it with video segments showing the finalists being interviewed by the judges. He eliminated a prepared speech each inalist gave in the evening gown competition in favor of asking the women unrehearsed questions. ``It won't be a cutesy question,'' he said. ``It will be sufficiently provocative to elicit an intelligent response which might give us further insight into her ability to articulate under pressure.'' The changes were necessary to keep the pageant up to date and attract the younger, female audience that had stopped watching the show in recent years, Horn said. ``Some people believe the pageant has gotten stale,'' said Horn, who took over when Albert Marks retired last year after 37 years. ``All we're trying to do is give it the vigor it once had ... and reconfirm that it's a positive program that deserves people's respect.'' For the 51 contestants, from the states and the District of Columbia, a week of pageantry and preliminary competitions lead to Saturday night's nationally televised finale. Reaching Atlantic City has been a rocky trip for some contestants. In th District of Columbia, the entire pageant was restaged after national pageant officials found problems with the judging. The original winner, Edwina Richard, became first runner-up and has said, ``I feel like I became a victim.'' In Georgia, the winner, Frances Frazier, has denied accusations she was promised the crown when she was a runner-up the year before. Earlier this year, a former Georgia pageant board member wrote to national officials saying she had firsthand knowledge that blacks were not being given a fair shot at the crown. Miss California not only had to watch in dismay as a defeated contestant loudly denounced the pageant but also had to respond to rumors she suffers from anorexia nervosa, the eating disorder. In the New Jersey state pageant, some contestants grumbled that one of the judges was acquainted with the winner. About 80,000 young women enter local contests that lead to the Miss America Pageant. More than $5 million in cash and tuition scholarships is available this year. Miss America receives at least a $30,000 scholarship and the income from a year of personal appearances. Gary Collins will serve as host of the two-hour special for the seventh year. His wife, 1959 Miss America Mary Ann Mobley, will be co-host. The show airs live on NBC-TV at 10 p.m. EDT Saturday. Performances in the talent category this year will be mainly singing, dancing and playing musical instruments. But there will also be belly dancing, an Irish dance and a gymnastics act. This year's Miss America, Kaye Lani Rae Rafko, won her title in part by performing a Hawaiian-Tahitian dance in a hot-pink costume with a bare midriff. Following preliminary competitions and interviews with the judges, the top 10 finishers will compete for the title before a TV audience estimated at 70 million viewers. Judging the finalists will be Richard Dysart and Blair Underwood of television's ``L.A. Law''; NBC News correspondent Deborah Norville; Miss America 1971 and broadcaster Phyllis George; actor George Peppard; actress Eva Gabor; columnist Dr. Joyce Brothers; Olympic ice skating gold medalist Brian Boitano; movie producer Lili Fini Zanuck; model agency founder Eileen Ford; Parade magazine publisher Walter Anderson, and William Farley, chairman of Farley Industries.
AP900202-0154 	X	President Alan Garcia said Friday he will attend the Feb. 15 drug summit with President Bush in Colombia, reversing his earlier decision to boycott the meeting if U.S. troops were still in Panama. Garcia said he decided to go to the meeting after Bush announced his intention to withdraw by the end of the month troops sent to Panama to remove Gen. Antonio Manuel Noriega from power. Presidents Virgilio Barco of Colombia and Jaime Paz Zamora of Bolivia are also set to attend the summit, which is to take place in Cartagena, Colombia. They are to discuss strategies to fight drug trafficking in their respective countries. The three Andean nations are the source of most of the world supply of cocaine, most of which is sold in the United States. Garcia cited the ``gravity of the drug problem'' and said he will go with a ``decisive and positive proposal'' to combat trafficking. Bolivia and Peru produce 90 percent of the world's coca leaf. Most of Peru's coca harvest is transformed into paste and shipped to Colombia, where it is refined into cocaine. Bolivian traffickers formerly did the the same but increasingly are producing refined cocaine and smuggling it directly to the United States and Europe, according to U.S. drug officials. The drug trade brings billions of dollars in clandestine revenues into the three countries each year. Bush last year proposed spending $2.2 billion over the next five years to fight the drug trade in the three Andean nations. Among the topics the four presidents are expected to discuss are military and police aid to fight smugglers and leftist guerrillas tied to drug trafficking, crop eradication and substitution programs, cooperation in stopping the laundering of drug money, and the extradition of drug suspects. Garcia had pulled out of the meeting after U.S. troops landed in Panama Dec. 20 to topple Noriega, saying, ``I cannot meet with the leader of an invading nation.'' Peru had planned to send a high-level delegation to the summit even if Garcia did not go. On Jan. 7, Garcia said he would attend the summit if U.S. troops were first withdrawn. In announcing his decision to go, Garcia said Friday he trusted Bush's promise to withdraw the troops by the end of February. ``This removes one of the obstacles in the way of my attendance,'' Garcia told reporters at the Government Palace. ``I have no reason to doubt the announcement he made before Congress.'' Bush said Wednesday in his State of the Union address that all ``additional troops'' sent to Panama would be withdrawn by the end of the month. About 27,000 U.S. troops were in Panama during the invasion. About 13,000 troops had been stationed at U.S. bases there before the invasion, and the same number are to remain after the February pullout. Garcia has been highly critical of the U.S. actions in Panama, and charged the United States intended to break the Panama Canal treaties of 1977, which call for the United States to cede control of the Panama Canal at the end of the century. Garcia also recalled his ambassador in Washington and suspended for one week joint anti-drug operations with U.S. drug agents and Peruvian police in protest.
AP881204-0009 	X	A man stabbed his 8-year-old daughter to death and critically injured his three other children Saturday in a predawn rampage through the family home, police said. Michael Wayne Nida, 31, also cut his wife and then slashed his own wrists and stomach, and was arrested for investigation of homicide, police said. He was listed in serious condition at Sutter General Hospital. His wife, Diana Nida, received a superficial wound in the hand during the attack and was treated and released from University Medical Center. Neighbors said they watched horrified as the man fatally stabbed the girl with a 10-inch knife in the driveway, then apologized to her. When police arrived, they found four stabbed children lying in the living room. Officers were attacked by a pit bull dog, which they shot. Eight-year-old Laura Nida died at the medical center a short time later, police said. April, 4, and John and Erick, 7-year-old twins, were listed in critical condition Saturday night following surgery for multiple stab wounds. Police said neighbors had indicated that Nida might have been under the influence of drugs, though they gave no details. The Sacramento Bee quoted neighbors as saying that Nida often used crack, amphetamines, marijuana and alcohol. Shortly after the attack began, Mrs. Nida ran out of the house, naked and bleeding, and screaming ``He stabbed my babies and he cut me!'', witnesses said. Neighbor Terry Lauer said Nida emerged through the front door and approached his wife, saying: ``It's OK, man, I just want to talk to her.'' Lauer said he told him to go back into the house, and Nida did. Moments later, however, he ran from the front door again, this time chasing the 8-year-old girt with what Lauer described as a bowie knife. ``He caught up with her and they both ended up on the ground,'' Lauer said. ``I saw him pick her up by the hair, then stab her twice with the knife. Her body went limp.'' Lauer said Nida then knelt over his daughter, cradling her body in his arms. ``I'm sorry. I didn't mean to hurt you,'' Lauer recalled Nida saying. Nica then carried the lifeless girl back into the house.
AP880708-0010 	X	George Bush campaigned behind enemy lines on Thursday with a foray into Massachusetts, while Michael Dukakis charged the vice president with favoring $7 billion in new taxes and said, ``so much for iron-clad no-tax commitments.'' Dukakis, who will fly to Atlanta in 10 days to claim the Democratic presidential nomination, also said Bush had made a ``rather late commitment'' when he said Wednesday that he would name a Hispanic American to his Cabinet. Before leaving on a Western campaign swing, the Massachusetts governor added that he would select a running mate ``in the not too distant future,'' but did nothing else to clarify the reigning mystery of the presidential campaign. Bush, whose own nomination is set for the Republican National Convention in New Orleans next month, flew to Dukakis' political base of Boston. There he met with Bay State Republicans and spoke to leaders of the Greek Orthodox Church, which counts Dukakis among its followers. The vice president got a warm reception from the Greek group, which had heard a day earlier from Dukakis. Bush said it was just as well they didn't appear together. ``Too much charisma can be dangerous to your health,'' he said to laughter. The vice president met with President Reagan before leaving Washington, and the two men directed their aides to work closely to maximize Bush's chances of victory in the fall. Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater also disclosed that Reagan may campaign on Bush's behalf in California when he vacations there this summer. California, the nation's largest state with 47 electoral votes, is Reagan's home. But Bush has fared poorly there in polls, and his aides are eager to cut into Dukakis' presumed lead in the state. Reagan is expected to campaign two days a week for Bush beginning in the fall, and Bush said Thursday the two would probably make some joint appearances. ``The president feels he can be especially helpful with conservative Republicans, Democrats and other key groups which are not registered Republicans, but which have voted for the Reagan-Bush ticket in '80 and '84,'' said Fitzwater. Reagan will be at his California ranch during the Democratic convention, but Bush said he himself may campaign during the first two days of the convention, hoping to ``get a little bit of ink'' in the news media during Dukakis' big week. In addition to his trip to Massachusetts, Bush dispatched New Hampshire Gov. John Sununu to Washington for a news conference designed to tar Dukakis. Sununu said tens of thousands of ``refugees'' are fleeing Massachusetts and Dukakis' administration each year and moving to New Hampshire. ``If Michael Dukakis fulfills his promise to do for the rest of the nation what he did for Massachusetts, then we are in serious trouble,'' he said. Dukakis has seemed to lose the political momentum in recent weeks, and he sought to regain it with his charge that Bush had forsaken his pledge to oppose any type of tax increase. He said the vice president supports a provision in trade legislation that calls for $1 billion in taxes for job training programs and also supports recently signed catastrophic illness health-care legislation with $6 billion in new taxes. ``So much for iron-clad no-tax commitments,'' Dukakis said of the centerpiece of Bush's campaign. Bush, in Boston, replied by making reference to Dukakis' signing of a cigarette tax and his support for another tax measure. ``I'm against raising taxes, and I think recent events here in this state that I don't plan to go into demonstrate we have a different view on taxes,'' he said. The Bush campaign also quarreled with Dukakis' assertion about the trade legislation and the catastrophic illiness health-care legislation. ``He is dead wrong on both counts and he is trying to blow smoke into the room,'' said spokesman Mark Goodin. In his home state, Dukakis said he expected to conclude work by the middle of next week on legislation to wipe out a looming budget deficit for the 1988 fiscal year, and on a package of tax increases and spending cuts for next year. Dukakis has been criticized repeatedly by Bush for agreeing to a new cigarette tax and other measures as part of the budget plan, for a total of $250 million in additional taxes and fees. Dukakis also scoffed at Bush's pledge before a Hispanic group in Texas to name a Hispanic member to the Cabinet. ``It strikes me that this is a rather late commitment,'' said Dukakis, who made a similar pledge a year ago. ``I don't know where he has been for the last eight years.'' Later, in Dallas, Dukakis spoke before the same group Bush had addressed a day earlier, and again jabbed at Bush over the pledge to appoint a Hispanic member of the Cabinet. ``Some people think it's enough to wake up after eight years and then promise opportunity for one Hispanic. I want to stand with you and create opportunity for 20 million Hispanic citizens across the country,'' he said. Dukakis also resurrected the issue of Reagan's veto of plant-closing legislation, using it against Bush. ``The president opposes it, the vice president opposes it, I don't know why.'' He said workers deserved the 60-day notice the legislation would provide before a plant could be closed and said the issue represented ``the fundamental difference in what a Democratic administration would mean to this country.''
AP900721-0051 	X	Madrid's suspension of aid to Cuba underscores pressure for democratic change in the former Spanish colony and further isolates Fidel Castro at a time when his main benefactor, Moscow, is getting stingier. ``It's an abrupt and historic decision,'' said political scientist Manuel Alcantara, a professor of Latin American affairs at Madrid's Complutense University. ``Because of the events in Eastern Europe, Spain feels some kind of responsibility about Cuba, to work for change there.'' As of today, 18 Cubans were in the Spanish mission in Havana, the Spanish news agency EFE reported. Nine sought refuge today, it said, and on Friday five entered the embassy. The four others sought refuge last week. Spain says it will not expel the asylum-seekers and will try to negotiate their departure from Cuba. Cuba calls all those who have sought refuge in the Spanish, Czech and Italian missions ``scum'' and habitual vagrants. Spain's secretary of state for international cooperation, Luis Yanez, told reporters in Brussels on Thursday that Spain was suspending $2.5 million in direct grants-in-aid to Cuba, the country's total this year to the island that was a Spanish colony for 406 years until 1898. While the sum is not substantial, another Spanish Foreign Ministry official hinted Friday that the move probably would not be the last to try to pressure the government of President Fidel Castro to grant more freedom to Cubans. ``More measures will be necessary,'' said Yago Pico de Coana, director general for Latin American affairs. He said it would be imprudent to elaborate. Spain has also recalled its ambassador in Havana for consultations. Cuba already has had to cope with a trade embargo by the United States and a loss of support from the Soviet Union and from East European countries that shed their Communist governments since last year. Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, whose reforms Castro has criticized, is not as forthcoming on aid as in the past. Castro repeatedly has rejected Western-style balloting and said his country has no need for Soviet-style reform _ despite pressure from Gorbachev. As criticism of Cuba has appeared in official Soviet media, Castro has called on Cubans to brace for possible cuts in the Soviets' $5 billion in yearly aid. U.S. sources last year said there had been substantial reductions already, as evidenced in the marked decline in the purchase of sugar, which the Soviet Union buys from Cuba at prices substantially higher than world market levels as a form of subsidy. Castro also has lost his two closest Caribbean allies _ Panama's Manuel Antonio Noriega, who was toppled in a U.S. invasion in December, and Nicaragua's leftist Sandinistas, who were defeated by a U.S.-backed opposition coalition in elections Feb. 25. Yanez said the Spanish aid cutoff effectively severed Cuba's ``umbilical cord'' with Spain that afforded access to the European Community. He said resumption of the aid was contingent on ``the resolution of problems through political channels.'' Cuba has been attempting to reach some kind of aid agreement with the 12-nation West European trading bloc but without success. A Spanish government spokesman, who is customarily not identified, denied that the decision to suspend aid represented a major shift in policy toward Cuba. He said the action was in keeping with remarks Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez made to Castro in March about the need for the Marxist nation to move toward democracy. Spain has maintained cordial ties throughout its own authoritarian and democratic administrations with the former colony. Both Gen. Francisco Franco and the democratically elected administrations that have governed Spain since his death in 1975 have assured Castro easy credit to purchase Spanish goods and finance long-term projects. Cuba's total commercial debt with Madrid is estimated at about $900 million, making Spain Cuba's second-most important creditor after the Soviet Union, to which Cuba owes an estimated $3 billion. The conservative Madrid daily ABC, an outspoken opponent of both the Castro and Gonzalez governments, pointed out that Yanez's annoucement didn't affect Spain's soft-loan program to Cuba, for which $11 million are earmarked this year _ nor its commercial credit and guarantee program designed to back up Spanish exports to Cuba. The Spanish Export Credit Insurance Co. held about $780 million in debts on exports to Cuba last year. Cuba consumes 15 percent of Spain's trade to Latin America, according to Economy Ministry figures.
AP900713-0202 	X	Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady says he will oppose further reductions of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission's powers if Congress passes legislation stripping the agency's authority over stock-index futures. Brady offered the olive branch at a Senate committee hearing Thursday on the Bush administration's plan to transfer control over stock-index futures to the rival Securities and Exchange Commission. One futures industry official said he saw Brady's remarks as an indication that the secretary thinks ``he's losing'' in the race to win Senate approval. ``I will oppose more sweeping changes to the CFTC authority if the administration's bill passes in its present form,'' Brady told the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee. But outside the hearing, when asked what he would do if Congress doesn't pass the bill, Brady said: ``I think it will pass.'' A spokesman for the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, Andrew Yemma, declined comment but noted that in the past the Merc has favored merging the SEC and CFTC over stripping the futures regulator of some of its authority. At the Chicago Board of Trade, spokesman Michael O'Connell also declined comment on the specifics of Brady's proposal but restated the BOT's position that ``we are against the proposed legislation and stand by the CFTC as the regulatory body that should oversee all futures markets.'' ``We are opposed to anything that weakens the CFTC,'' said John Damgard, president of the Washington-based Futures Industry Association. Although he hadn't seen Brady's statement, Damgard who was in Chicago to give a speech, noted: ``I think there's a sense on Brady's part that he's losing. If this went to a vote right now, we're pretty confident we would take the day on an up or down vote.'' Stock-index futures, often used in program trading strategies by large institutional investors such as pension funds, allow investors to trade on the movement of a basket of stocks without having to buy the underlying stocks. The CFTC and the futures industry oppose the administration bill, saying it would cripple the agency's ability to regulate other futures products while drying up market liquidity and driving business out of the country. But the SEC and the Treasury Department argue the move is necessary to curb wild price swings in the stock markets arising out of price differences between the futures and securities markets. ``Stocks and stock-index futures are one market linked together by electronics,'' said Brady, who first advanced that opinion while heading a presidential task force that investigated the 1987 stock market crash. He noted that in the 42 years between 1940 and 1982 when stock index futures first began trading, there were only three instances when the Dow Jones Industrial Average declined by more than 6 percent, while there have been four instances since the 1987 crash. In an apparent attempt to allay concerns that the bill is the first step toward a complete dismantling of the CFTC which oversees the futures industry, Brady said ``the administration's proposal is not the proverbial `camel's nose under the tent.' ``The way the markets are now functioning makes no further shifts in regulatory jurisdiction necessary _ not Treasury bond futures to the SEC, not a full merger of the SEC and CFTC,'' he said. He urged passage of the bill to prevent further market disruptions. Noting that debate on the bill would lead to a political ``bloodletting,'' Sen. Christopher Dodd, D-Conn., complained that the administration should have settled the dispute. Instead ``we find ourselves acting as a referee between the SEC and the CFTC'' which he described as ``two agencies acting like children.''
AP880921-0251 	X	The stock market drifted aimlessly in quiet trading Wednesday, still seemingly in the ``summer doldrums'' with autumn about to arrive. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials edged up 3.02 to 2,090.50. But declining issues slightly outnumbered advances in nationwide trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed stocks, with 689 up, 697 down and 536 unchanged. Volume on the floor of the Big Board came to 127.40 million shares, against 142.22 million in the previous session. Nationwide, consolidated volume in NYSE-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 148.74 million shares. Activity was curtailed somewhat by the absence of investors who were observing the Jewish holiday Yom Kippur. The Labor Department reported Wednesday morning that the consumer price index rose 0.4 percent in August, matching its July increase. The latest figure was in line with advance estimates on Wall Street, and thus did not stir up much excitement. Still, brokers said there was some relief at the suggestion in the data that inflation wasn't gathering much momentum. Bond prices staged a modest advance in the credit markets, putting yields on long-term government bonds just a shade above 9 percent. ``Apathy and lethargy continue to be the key words to describe conditions in the stock market,'' observes the Merrill Lynch Market Letter in its current edition. Newmont Mining climbed 2 to 36\ on word that Minorco was offering to acquire Consolidated Gold Fields, which owns just under half of Newmont. In the blue-chip sector, General Electric rose \ to 43; International Business Machines gained { to 113\; Philip Morris rose 1 to 96}; General Motors dropped ] to 73~, and American Telephone & Telegraph was unchanged at 26{. Regina Co. tumbled 10 to 7 in the over-the-counter market. The company, a manufacturer of floor care products, said late Tuesday it would report a loss for the current quarter, citing a slowdown of orders and other problems. Precious metals stocks were mixed, holding their ground even as the price of gold fell below $400 an ounce for the first time in more than a year and a half. ASA Ltd. rose { to 36{, while Hecla Mining dropped ] to 13~. As measured by Wilshire Associates' index of more than 5,000 actively traded stocks, the market increased $4.70 billion, or 0.18 percent, in value. The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks gained .20 to 152.64. Standard & Poor's industrial index rose .64 to 310.11, and S&P's 500-stock composite index was up .43 at 270.16. The NASDAQ composite index for the over-the-counter market picked up .81 to 384.91. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index closed at 298.97, up .34.
AP880706-0281 	X	Irving Bank Corp. is backing a sweetened merger offer from Banca Commerciale Italiana SpA, which rival Bank of New York Corp. contends is still inferior to its own hostile bid. Irving said on Tuesday that its management had negotiated an amendment to the outstanding offer by Banca Commerciale, Italy's second largest bank, for 51 percent of Irving's common stock to include a dividend in the form of stock warrants to Irving shareholders. Irving said the sweetened offer made the overall transaction worth at least $79.50 per share, which the bank holding company's board of directors deemed superior to Bank of New York's ``best and final bid.'' Under a complex restructuring plan that also would include the sale of assets and a special cash dividend, Banca Commerciale has offered $80 cash a share for 51 percent of Irving's common stock, or a total of about $760 million. The new agreement also provides for Irving to distribute a dividend in the form of stock warrants to all Irving shareholders before the Banca Commerciale tender offer. The warrants, one for every four shares of Irving stock, would have a term of seven years and an exercise price of $65 per share of Irving stock. The new deal means Banca Commerciale would be offering the same amount of money for Irving shares even though the shares would be worth less to the Italian bank because of the distribution by Irving. Irving said BCI's financial adviser, Lazard Freres & Co., put the value of the warrants to shareholders at $4 to $7 per share of Irving common stock. Irving stock closed at $71.37{ per share, up 12{ cents, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading Tuesday. Bank of New York rose $1.25 per share to $36.12{. Bank of New York responded that its bid for all of Irving's stock remained superior. Owen Brady, a spokesman for Bank of New York, said BNY's financial adviser Morgan Stanley & Co. projected that if Irving stock sold for $45 a share after a merger with BCI, the warrants effectively would add no more than $1.35 per share in value to BCI's previous offer. Bank of New York, which owns a 4.9 percent stake in Irving, is offering $15 in cash and 1.575 shares of its own stock for each of Irving's common shares outstanding. The offer is valued at around $68 a share or $1.2 billion. Bank of New York has offered to sweeten its offer by slightly raising the stock portion of the bid and adding other shareholder incentives, including a special cash dividend, if Irving agreed to abandon its anti-takeover ``poison pill.'' The company also has gone to court seeking to remove the defensive mechanism, which would make an unsolicited merger prohibitively expensive. Irving steadfastly has rejected Bank of New York's takeover advances, which surfaced last September. Estimates of the value of the offers have differed widely. The Irving board said analyses by its advisers, Goldman, Sachs & Co. and J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc., said the Banca Commerciale offer was worth $74 to $79.50 a share. Robert Felise, an executive vice president at Irving, said a separate analysis by Lazard Freres valued the sweetened BCI offer at $80 or more per share. BCI's advisers valued the Bank of New York offer at $72 to $77 a share.
AP901010-0076 	X	After decades behind the Iron Curtain, hundreds of Etruscan artifacts have returned to Italy in a major show from museums in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union. The 1,200 artifacts, which were nearly inaccessible to Westerners for decades, have come home to central Italy, where the Etruscan culture flourished until the 1st century B.C. The exhibit is being hailed as a chance for scholars and the public to rediscover Etruscan masterpieces hidden away for decades. It also is seen as a sign of exciting times to come in the art world, as the new democracies of Eastern Europe begin to exchange exhibits with countries that were ideological foes. ``This brings together an extraordinary number of masterpieces that were very little known,'' said Massimo Pallottino, president of the National Institute of Italian Etruscan Studies. ``It's something of exceptional importance.'' The exhibit in a Gothic castle in Viterbo, 50 miles north of Rome, was organized by the State Museums of Berlin. It includes Etruscan artifacts from 26 museums in Poland, Hungary, Czechoslovakia and the former East Germany, as well as the Soviet Union. The Etruscans were a powerful empire that dominated Italy before succumbing to the Roman Empire. They were known for commercial flair, an elaborate religion and a brilliant artisan tradition, which included the finest goldwork in ancient Europe. The Viterbo show brings together a wide range of Etruscan artifacts, ranging from a simple ceramic urn shaped like a house dating from the 9th century B.C., to elaborately carved sarcophagi from the 2nd and 3rd centuries B.C. The highlights include the contents of an 8th century B.C. tomb of a man known as the Warrior of Tarquinia. Among the 104 pieces are engraved bronze shields, weapons, bracelets, rings and even a razor for the afterlife. Another rare item is the ``Tile of Capua,'' a 5th-century B.C. plaque with writing believed to be part of a funeral ritual. It is the second-longest existing piece of Etruscan writing, which scientists have never succeeded in translating. Several carved stone and alabaster sarcophagi with scenes of battles or the trip to the afterlife illustrate the Etruscans' talent for sculpture. On top of a few lies a likeness of the dead person, often propped up on one elbow as if to enjoy a good Etruscan meal. Also in the exhibit is gold jewelry, including tiny earrings etched to resemble shields or bunches of grapes from the 3rd to 5th centuries B.C. Many Etruscan treasures wound up in German and Russian hands in the 19th century, before Italy passed a law limiting exports. Germans, in particular, did much of the early research on the Etruscans and were interested in acquiring the pieces. Many of the items in the exhibit were difficult for Westerners to see during Communist rule in Eastern Europe, due to the difficulty of obtaining tourist visas. ``Even some of our experts hadn't seen them,'' said Carlo Maria Cardoni, director of the exhibit. For the Italian organizers, the novelty of having treasures from Eastern European museums was matched by the novelty of working with museum officials trained under communism. ``Their architect still goes around with a wooden ruler and a pencil,'' said Cardoni, shaking his head. ``Let him see a computer that in 35 minutes lays out the show, and it's like hitting him in the head with a hammer.'' The Germans were also uneasy about the idea of making a videocassette of the exhibit, Cardoni said. ``I just went ahead with it anyway,'' he shrugged. The show, which closes Sunday, has toured Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union and may eventually go to France or Japan, Cardoni said. Art experts say the show is an example of the revolution that is occurring in cultural exchanges now that Communist governments have fallen or become more moderate. ``As curators and scholars, there's always been an international interest in sharing the cultural wealth of one nation with another,'' said Jillian Slonim, public information director of the New York-based American Federation of Arts. ``On the practical level, the circumstances have radically changed in the last short while, along with the changes in the governments.''
AP901014-0006 	X	Tens of thousands of people on Sunday protested the skyrocketing cost of living that they blame on government reforms to liberalize the economy. The protest by trade unionists in Constantine, this North African country's third-largest city, came two years after economic riots swept the nation. ``That's enough, the poor are dying,'' the protesters cried, brandishing empty food baskets, as they marched through the streets of Constantine, 300 miles east of the capital. The crowd presented a list of its grievances at regional government offices and in a letter to President Chadli Bendjedid, Algerian TV reported. They demanded lower food prices and job protection. Bendjedid introduced sweeping economic and political reforms in Algeria after the riots in October 1988, where army troops gunned down scores of Algerians protesting declining living standards. But market reforms are coming slowly and sales of Algeria's principal export, oil, have been unable to revitalize a stagnant economy marked by official unemployment of 25 percent.
AP880615-0168 	X	Members of a truck convoy carrying aid to Nicaragua were turned away at the Mexican border today by U.S. Customs officials and then formed a human chain to block traffic on the principal bridge over the Rio Grande. A Mexican federal officical broke up the bridge blockade about 12:15 p.m. The blockade began when Customs officials detained a convoy truck and its driver as he attempted to cross the bridge in defiance of federal authorities. Earlier Wednesday, Customs agents stopped the Veterans' Peace Convoy to Nicaragua a block from Bridge No. 1 and attempted to route it to an inspection area other than the one at the bridge, but the group refused to budge. ``We're insisting that we be allowed to proceed right up to this inspection area, as previously agreed upon,'' said Gerry Condon, a convoy organizer. ``The difference is we know this inspection area; that's where the media is, that's where our supporters are, that's the agreement we had with them. We're not going to let them lead us by the nose and take us out of sight of people.'' One convoy vehicle, driven by Bob Livesey of Dorchester, Mass., later drove up to the bridge, where Customs officials refused to allow it to turn south toward Mexico. Another vehicle, driven by Hal Muskat of San Francisco, was detained about noon. ``My instructions are that I am not to allow you to leave,'' said James Purser, chief Customs inspector in Laredo. ``We're going to keep on trying to get our vehicles down here to the border one at a time,'' Condon said. As police and Customs officials stood by the roadblock, convoy members and supporters sang the song, ``Give Peace a Chance,'' and chanted ``Let the Convoy Pass.'' Witnesses said a small caravan left the convoy campsite for the bridge five miles away shortly before 9 a.m. About 20 supporters of the group held signs that said, ``Embargo South Africa, Not Nicaragua'' and ``Let The Convoy Pass.'' The group must submit to a Customs inspection to enter Mexico. Customs officials said that the group is being asked to comply with normal export procedures and that it has played up the issue to attract media attention. About 200 convoy members and supporters held a rally Tuesday night at its camp. Many shouted, ``Viva Nicaragua libre!'' (``Long live free Nicaragua!'') when candles were lit during the rally, which featured leftist folk songs and an appearance by Rep. Mickey Leland, D-Texas. ``I'm here to do what I can to see to it that the convoy gets across the border and to Nicaragua to deliver the humanitarian aid that they have,'' Leland said. Notables including Jesse Jackson and actor Ed Asner also have urged the U.S. government to allow it to pass. Leland met earlier Tuesday with U.S. Customs officials in Laredo and spoke by phone with Treasury Secretary James Baker trying to persuade him to ease the ban on donating vehicles to Nicaragua, said convoy member Tom Hansen. About 30 tons of food, medicine and clothing are loaded on 38 vehicles. The Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control has told the convoy the cargo may be taken to Nicaragua, but that leaving the vehicles there would violate a trade embargo in effect with that leftist-ruled country for three years. Violating the embargo could result in fines of up to $50,000 and up to 10 years in prison. In addition, Condon said, Customs officials have told the convoy members that if they plan to go to Nicaragua without intending to return the vehicles within 30 days, the vehicles would be seized and the drivers subject to arrest. Condon said Tuesday the convoy did not intend to violate any laws, but added that the group was prepared to face a seizure when it reached Customs at Laredo's Bridge No. 1 today. Convoy members contend that the vehicles, mostly pickup trucks, are a form of humanitarian aid exempted from the Nicaraguan Trade Control Regulations. Asner spoke on the phone to convoy participants Tuesday. The nighttime rally also included the reading of a message Jackson sent to Baker, urging him to allow the convoy to pass. ``I hope that you will be guided by their example, expressed in their words, `Feed the children, not the war,''' the Mailgram from Jackson said. The convoy left from four different regions of the United States on May 21 and has been camped in Laredo since June 7. The U.S. government, which supports the Nicaraguan Contras fighting the leftist Sandinista government, imposed the trade control regulata in May 1985.
AP900210-0104 	X	DE KLERK: Stability is stability. Stability is a situation where people can feel safe, where people who want to go to work can do so, where people can live a normal life without intimidation, without threat. Stability is a situation where you do not have arson in a country because of political debate and differences. Stability is a situation where you do not have deaths as a result of political strife. That is the sort of stability we are striving for. Obviously, in any country, at all times, you have crimes and we go to great lengths to draw the necessary distinctions between ordinary and politically related instability. QUESTION: Mr. President, when you talk about a fair and just preliminary to negotiations, will you go beyond the state of emergency, and discuss as well the negotiation process, the establishment of full citizenship rights for the Black people of South Africa? DE KLERK: Thank you for that question. We have just won an election stating that as our goal. That is the mandate that my party asked of the electorate and that is the mandate that we received. There is a misconception that we do not want to give full citizenship rights to all South Africans, also to black South Africans. As a matter of fact, we have already received such a mandate from the white electorate in an election in 1989. It is no longer a question whether all South Africans must get full citizenship rights. The question is how to structure it, how also to accommodate the diversity in a non-discriminatory manner, of our total population. The fact that we have minorities, but nonetheless that clear commitment is the system must give full class-A citizenships to all South Africans, irrespective of race or color. DE KLERK: Once again, I do not want to speak on his behalf. QUESTION: Mr. President, while in custody, Mr. Mandela indicated that he would act as an intermediary or facilitator between the government and the ANC. Do you expect to continue to deal with him now on that basis? DE KLERK: I follow an open-door policy and should come forward and should he be prepared to play the role of facilitator, to interest himself in promoting a climate for negotiation, should he interest himself in promoting talks, even talks about talks, yes, that open door is also open to him. QUESTION: President De Klerk, I was wondering whether the presence of the Rev. Jackson here in South Africa had anything to do with the release of Mandela? (Laughter). DE KLERK: As far as the release of Mr. Mandela is concerned, his presence is totally irrelevant. QUESTION: President, can I ask you: did Mr. Mandela give you any assurance that he would call for peace in this country? DE KLERK: I did not ask him. QUESTION: President, from your last reply, when you said that he is prepared to act as a facilitator, does that mean he has not given you his agreement to enter negotiation? DE KLERK: His willingness to act as a facilitator has been published widely and over a fairly long period now. I did not discuss it with him as such again last night. QUESTION: Mr. De Klerk, could you possibly describe Mr. Mandela's reaction when you told him he would be released tomorrrow? DE KLERK: I do not think that I would like to try to do that QUESTION: Returning to the question of the lifting of the state of emergency, the stability required, does this imply that you will wait until there is complete peace in the Natal province, and do you think that that realistically will happen within the few weeks time that some of your ministers have given as a time span for that lifting? DE KLERK: There is an element of uncertainty, obviously, with regard to everything which lies in the future. None of us can exactly say what will happen tomorrow and the day after. It is really our hope that with the steps which we have taken, that it will make a contribution and that will bring us soon to the situation where it can be considered. We review this situation almost on an ongoing basis, almost on a day-to-day basis, and we are as anxious as anybody else to have the state of emergency lifted as soon as possible. QUESTION: You said that the lifting of the state of emergency would be a matter for negotiations. With whom do you propose to negotiate? Mr. Mandela, the ANC, who? DE KLERK: No, I did not say that is matter for negotiation. I said that the question of political prisoners is a matter for negotiation. The state of emergency was imposed by the government because of a state of instability throughout our country. It will be a government decision to lift it, and the test will be whether the stability has been restored sufficiently so that we can do so. QUESTION: But you did say that you have discussed it with Mr. Mandela, didn't you? DE KLERK: Yes, obviously, because it is a matter which is being raised from many quarters as also being a stumbling block, and in that sense it was discussed. QUESTION: Mr. President, may I ask you: have you already or are you about to inform world leaders, and if so, whom? DE KLERK: I have informed our minister of foreign affairs a few hours ago and in all probability he has undertaken an exercise so that they will not just read it in the press. It is general custom, which we adhere to, and that I am sure he has done. I did not speak to anybody. QUESTION: Are you, sir, concerned at all for the safety of Nelson Mandela, and if so, how? DE KLERK: Yes, in my opening address, or rather, in another statement I indicated that, yes, I think there is reason for concern about his safety. There are all sorts of people who might threaten his life. I think radicals from the very far left might be tempted to do so, and I think there is also a risk that it might come from radicalists from the right. Many publicc figures are being threatened throughout the world almost in all countries, and with him having such a high profile, I think, yes, there is a real risk, and one must take every precaution to ensure that noghing happens to him. But when he leaves prison, then he will be moving to his own circle of friends, and in all probability, as in the case of Mr. Sisulu and the other prisoners which we released, there was no request to the state to give any assistance with regard to their security. QUESTION: Mr. President, I wonder if I may ask you to define the mandate? How do you define full constitutional rights? Is that one man, one vote? DE KLERK: Can we save that for the press conference of next week? That is the type of thing I would likee to address then. Thank you very much.
AP880513-0063 	X	Widely scattered showers and thunderstorms swept through Alabama and northern Florida today after large chunks of hail pelted portions of Louisiana and high winds ripped down power lines in Arkansas. Showers and thunderstorms eased over the Pacific Northwest early this morning. Strong thunderstorms developing late Thursday night along a cold front crossing Washington and Oregon produced strong and gusty winds. The Pendleton, Ore., and Yakima, Wash., airports recorded winds that whipped up to 60 mph. Thunderstorms over the lower Mississippi Valley on Thursday night produced one-inch-sized hail, while hail as big as golf balls lashed an area near Spearsville, La. In Norphlet, Ark., high winds downed power lines. Meanwhile, scattered showers that extended from Lake Michigan to southern Iowa early this morning were developing ahead of a cold front that was rapidly moving across the upper Midwest. Dry weather prevailed across the rest of the nation, with fair skies in most areas. Today's forecast called for showers and thunderstorms from the Ohio Valley into New England, with most from the eastern Great Lakes region through New York into Vermont; rain over the northern Pacific Coast region; and mostly sunny over the rest of the country. High temperatures were forecast in the 70s or 80s over much of the nation; in the 60s along the northern half of the Pacific Coast region into much of Washington, and from the upper Mississippi Valley into the lower Great Lakes region; in the 50s across the upper Great Lakes; in the 90s over Oklahoma and the inland areas of southern Texas; and in the upper 90s and nearing 110 over the desert Southwest. Temperatures around the nation at 3 a.m. EDT ranged from 31 degrees at Grand Forks, N.D., to 88 degrees at Phoenix, Ariz. Other reports: _East: Atlanta 69 cloudy; Boston 52 fair; Buffalo 68 windy; Charleston, S.C. 62 foggy; Cincinnati 62 fair; Cleveland 65 fair; Detroit 65 windy; Miami 75 fair; New York 54 fair; Philadelphia 54 fair; Pittsburgh 54 fair; Portland, Maine 45 fair; Washington 60 fair. _Central: Bismarck 38 fair; Dallas-Fort Worth 65 fair; Denver 57 fair; Des Moines 71 cloudy; Indianapolis 66 fair; Kansas City 69 fair; Minneapolis-St. Paul 47 windy; Nashville 60 cloudy; New Orleans 56 fair; St. Louis 70 fair. _West: Albuquerque 64 fair; Anchorage 48 showery; Las Vegas 86 fair; Los Angeles 63 fair; Phoenix 90 fair; Salt Lake City 61 fair; San Diego 64 fair; San Francisco 57 fair; Seattle 52 rain. _Canada: Montreal 59 rain; Toronto 66 windy.
AP880610-0289 	X	Computer chiefs at some of the nation's biggest companies have nice things to say about IBM, or nothing to say at all, according to a survey in the forthcoming issue of InformationWeek. Ninety-three percent of the corporate information managers who responded to the InformationWeek survey agreed that International Business Machines Corp. is a positive influence on the marketplace, while none disagreed and 7 percent said they were undecided. But of the 50 executives invited to participate in the survey, 19 declined to participate in spite of promises of anonymity. Their names were chosen from the top echelon of the Fortune 500 and InformationWeek's own list of the 100 biggest computer users. On other questions, 26 percent said IBM exerts unfair influence on the competition while 58 percent disagreed and 16 percent said they were undecided. Sixteen percent said IBM was too big, while 58 percent disagreed and 26 percent were undecided. Sixty-four percent said IBM was fairly treated by the media, while 13 percent disagreed and 23 percent were undecided. The report is part of the magazine's special IBM issue, due out Monday. Because of the small and select size of the sample, the results are not necessarily applicable to computer users in general.
AP900810-0050 	X	The dollar was higher against all other major foreign currencies in early European trading today amidst continuing concern over the Middle East crisis. Gold prices were higher. Traders said they expected the dollar to continue gaining ahead of an Arab League meeting in Cairo today and on reports of further Iraqi troop movements toward Kuwait and toward the border with Turkey. ``The market is reserved,'' said a trader at a major West German bank in Frankfurt. ``The (Middle East) situation looks like it can only get worse.'' In Tokyo, where trading ends as Europe's business day begins, the dollar rose 0.07 yen to a closing 149.75 yen. Later, in London, it was quoted at a higher rate of 150.10 yen. Other dollar rates at midmorning compared with late Thursday: _1.5974 West German marks, up from 1.5915 _1.3455 Swiss francs, up from 1.3385 _5.3607 French francs, up from 5.3340 _1.7985 Dutch guilders, up from 1.7930 _1,170.50 Italian lire, up from 1,164.75 _1.1473 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1467 In London, the dollar rose against the British pound, and was quoted at $1.8690, compared with $1.8720 late Thursday. Gold opened in London at a bid price of $387.00 a troy ounce, up from $385.25 bid late Thursday. At midmorning, the city's major bullion dealers fixed a recommended price of $388.75. In Zurich, the bid price was $388.75, up from $385 late Thursday. Earlier, in Hong Kong, gold rose $3.84 to close at a bid $388.01. Silver rose in London to a bid price of $4.90 a troy ounce, from Thursday's $4.87.
AP880608-0177 	X	Drug smugglers using small planes easily evade federal rules requiring the registration of aircraft and pilots, a government informant told Congress on Wednesday. The witness, testifying from behind a screen and identified only as the former bookkeeper of an international drug ring, said the federal registration rules were ``very easy to beat. Nothing to it.'' The witness told the House Public Works and Transportation Committee of airplane bills of sale that never were sent to the Federal Aviation Administration, of fictitious names and addresses reported for buyers and sellers, and of signatures scrawled illegibly on FAA forms and modifications _ such as installation of long-range fuel tanks _ that went unreported to the government. The FAA did not pursue such gaps in documentation and in some cases required no records that would make it easier to track down aircraft owners and pilots, the witness said. ``I didn't see a vast amount of brilliance in the smuggling community,'' said the man, who was referred to by the legislators as ``Mr. Smith.'' ``If you give them an opportunity to make mistakes and leave a paper trail, it seems to me they'll make mistakes and leave a paper trail.'' Rep. Glenn Anderson, D-Calif., chairman of the committee, said 64 percent of the cocaine and marijuana seized in the United States last year was captured on small planes owned by individuals or businesses. He cited a report by the Office of Technology Assessment, a research arm of Congress, that estimated that there are 1,300 to 3,500 drug-smuggling flights by small planes entering the country annually. In what has been the usual procedure in the spate of drug hearings held by Congress during this election year, the witness was accompanied by several armed Capitol police officers who stood guard inside and outside the hearing room. The man said he was a former member of the federal witness protection program and was on probation after pleading guilty to state charges of conspiracy to smuggle cocaine and racketeering. He said he had worked for a ``loose confederation'' of Americans, Colombians, Bahamians and others who smuggled cocaine into the United States aboard aircraft. He was responsible for the registration and ownership documents of more than 40 planes used by the participants, some used for legitimate businesses they owned and others for smuggling. To disguise the planes' ownership, the witness said he often had foreigners sign registration forms and use difficult to trace American mailing addresses. He would at times use addresses of apartment complexes without supplying apartment numbers, and arrange to have people who lived at the complexes watch for piles of undelivered mail and relay it. The witness also said mechanics who modified the planes he used often knew why the equipment was being installed on the aircraft. ``As a result, they had no interest in making any documentation of the work which they would have had to sign, for fear of jeopardizing their licenses,'' he said. At the same hearing, four drug investigators complained that they were frequently hindered by federal regulations that made it possible for smugglers to hide their identities. ``Aircraft identification and registered owner identification is an elusive veil behind which the smuggler finds refuge,'' said Carol Knapik, an undercover detective in the Broward County, Fla., sheriff's office. She also testified from behind screens. Janet Hale, an assistant secretary of the Department of Transportation, told the lawmakers that the FAA was trying to improve its registration systems so it could provide more information to law enforcement agencies. The public works committee is considering legislation that would require the FAA to improve its record-keeping system.
AP881222-0235 	X	Ignore the wheelchair and arthritis. Her 80 years weigh lightly upon the mind and wit of M.F.K. Fisher, whose gifts to the world of food and literature are still mounting. But shed a tear for the grand dame of gastronomy: Mary Frances Kennedy Fisher denies herself the pleasure she gives her army of admirers in the 17 books and scores of magazine pieces that for 50 years set a lean and spicy standard few can match. ``I never read anything I've written,'' she snapped. ``I don't care to go back. I never read a word of print about me or by me.'' She wouldn't argue with going back to being able to use her hands for typing. Fate has ruled that she must dictate into a tape recorder. There's no question of her not doing it. Writing is as important to her as air. ``I am compulsive about it,'' admitted the Michigan-born author, who wrote such tasty morsels as ``How to Cook a Wolf,'' ``The Gastronomical Me,'' ``Consider the Oyster'' and her pungent ``Alphabet for Gourmets.'' Chafing among cushions in her little wine-country house, she added, ``But it's like pulling teeth. It's just awful. I can't dictate to a person so I dictate secretly. I don't make many mistakes, you know. It's my newspaper training. ... I don't have any errors once I get it down on paper, thank God.'' In 1937, the world's food writers discovered a tough new kid on the block when they eyed this paragraph leaping from the pages of ``Serve It Forth,'' Mary Frances' first book: ``The quails are an artful lure to the most refined of palates, and the rabbit stew, steaming, aromatic, is made just as tempting with an onion or two, pepper freshly ground, a little bacon and a dash of cheap, pure wine.'' A somewhat less literate reporter observed, ``It's a shame you don't get to read your good stuff like that.'' She was not impressed. Others are. It was once said of her crisp prose: ``She writes about food as others do about love, but rather better. ... Fisher writes not as a specialist but as a whole human being, spiky with prejudices, charming, short-tempered, well-traveled and cosmopolitan. ... She is a person, not a gourmet masked as a writer. Her passion comes from inside her.'' That was 35 years ago. Except for such indignities as two hip replacements, a corneal implant and the arthritis, nothing has changed, and she remembers everything between times _ three husbands, magazine pieces, the books that ``never made me any money,'' the travels in Europe. Of all her mates, said Mary Frances, ``my real husband was Jimmy Parrish (Dillwyn Parrish).'' They lived in a stone house surrounded by a vineyard and garden in Vevey, Switzerland. It was there, she said, that she learned from her Italian Swiss neighbors to cook vegetables in their own juices ``with sweet butter or thick olive oil to encourage them a little; tomatoes and onions and sweet peppers and all the summer things.'' She credits her start in food-writing on an episode during prohibition when she was living in Whittier, Calif., and her newspaperman father, Rex Kennedy, was teaching at a nearby college. She was working in a postcard shop. One afternoon she had a half-day off and decided to go the public library, where she found an Elizabethan cookbook on a table. ``It smelled so good ... the binding. I started writing,'' she said. She showed her writing to Alfred Fisher, the man who became her first husband. She had just turned 21 when they married, and 11 days later they set off to France and three years in Dijon, where he got his doctorate and she earned a degree at the University of Dijon. Back in the states, her writing started making the rounds. At 26, she sold her first magazine story, ``The Standing and the Waiting,'' and it conjured visions, full of verbs and wide swaths of color. The most scholarly of her work is her translation of legendary gastronomer Jean Anthelme Brillat-Savarin's ``The Physiology of Taste,'' her favorite work. Smoothing her red polka-dot dress, she peered out the window of the small, busy house she has lived in for 18 years, craning to see who was coming to visit her next. They come all day long, for a few moments in her ``youthful'' presence. They come professionally or as friends, for interviews, a publisher's conference, a chat, advice or perhaps to drop off a particularly nice piece of cheese or share a plateful of the chincoteague oysters she loves so much. She calls her visitors ``strays and wayfarers.'' They sit with her near a large picture window in her Sonoma County house on the edge of the old Bouverie Ranch, in Jack London country. But in her eighth decade, Mary Frances is not overwhelmed with the way things have gone with the world. ``We're suicidal,'' declared the mother of two daughters. ``Our doom is sealed. I take a very dim view of us as a human race, the only one that kills itself and everything around it. ... We've poisoned the earth and the land and the water. What else is there to poison? ... I don't have any hope for us at all.'' We looked out on her green meadow, rolling to the trees, peaceful, and the harsh pronouncement seemed a long way away.
AP880418-0308 	X	Home Shopping Network Inc. sued Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. on Monday, accusing the investment firm of fraud in connection with its sale of $100 million in HSN convertible bonds to European investors last year. The shop-by-television retailer said in a suit filed in U.S. District Court in Tampa, Fla., that Drexel fraudulently induced Home Shopping to allow a new conversion price to be set for swapping the bonds for HSN stock. The suit also accused Drexel and the head of its high-yield investment bond group, Michael Milken, of secretly funneling the securities to its regular network of ``junk bond'' buyers and then acting in conjunction with the network to manipulate the HSN stock price downward during the 30-day period for setting the new conversion price. A Drexel spokesman, Steve Anreder, said the firm had not yet seen the lawsuit but ``it sounds like Home Shopping Network is unhappy with the market performance of its securities, over which we have no control.'' HSN's action comes against a background of a broad government inquiry into Drexel's operations that arose partly because of the firm's reported past business links with speculator and insider-trader Ivan F. Boesky, now serving a three-year prison term for securities fraud. Drexel has denied any improper activities and hasn't been charged with any wrongdoing. The HSN suit asked for invalidation of the price-reset provision in the bond sale and requested unspecified monetary damages for securities fraud, breach of fiduciary duty and other violations. HSN Chairman Roy Speer said that in addition to the lawsuit, the company filed a complaint with the Securities and Exchange Commission against Drexel and Milken charging them with manipulating HSN's stock. When the bonds were sold last April, they carried an original conversion price of $25.80 per share. At that price, the company would have had to issue about 3.9 million shares of stock to redeem all the bonds. But HSN said that after the bond offering was closed, it agreed at Drexel's request to include a provision to allow a new conversion price to be set at the 30-day average of HSN's share price prior to the April 22 conversion date plus a 20 percent premium. At the time of the bond issue, HSN was trading at about $18 a share on the American Stock Exchange, said Nando Di Filippo, HSN executive vice president. He said the stock had fallen to about $8 a share when the reset period started on March 10 and has fallen as low as $4.87{ a share since then. Although the reset period does not expire until Thursday, Di Filippo said it appears the conversion price will be about $6.50, which he said could result in the issuance of up to about 14 million shares of stock. That amount would not mean a change in control of the video retailer, but it would dilute the value of the company's outstanding stock, he said. Home Shopping, based in St. Petersburg, Fla., operates two television networks that offer items ranging from electronics equipment to jewelry for sale to viewers who call while the items are displayed. For the year ended Aug. 31, 1987, the company reported a profit of $29.5 million, or 33 cents per share, on sales of $582.1 million.
AP881013-0068 	X	A boat capsized in a river in the northern state of Punjab and at least 13 people drowned, United News of India reported today. The accident occurred in Ferozpure district late Wednesday, the news agency said. The boat carrying 35 people overturned in a river between the villages of Khidar Pindi and Casuwala, about 220 miles northwest of New Delhi, the agency said. The remaining passengers were rescued, the agency said.
AP880509-0131 	X	Ronald Reagan held both Gorbachevs spellbound with Hollywood stories during the Geneva summit, according to the latest tales from the White House, but after Raisa Gorbachev sparkled in dinner table conversation, Nancy Reagan fumed: ``Who does that dame think she is?'' Former White House chief of staff Donald T. Regan, in his book, ``For the Record,'' published Monday, portrayed a first lady who tried to keep presidential spokesman Larry Speakes from uttering the word ``cancer'' when a malignancy was found in her husband's colon and who kept Regan from riding the helicopter to Bethesda Naval Hospital because helicopters were too ``presidential'' for staff members' use. And he told of a president who perks up in the presence of women _ and unfailingly offers a fatherly wave to the pretty stewardesses across an airport tarmac. Beyond his disclosure of Mrs. Reagan's reliance on a Nob Hill astrologist, Regan's book gave out-of-school tales about a first lady with a pervasive, protective role in her husband's presidency. The Iran-Contra arms and money affair made Mrs. Reagan's ``sensitivity to criticism more acute than ever,'' Regan wrote, and as a result Mrs. Reagan gave him frequent directions on how to handle the matter. ``The first lady's telephoning was so frequent that I was spending two or three times as much time talking to her as to the president,'' he said. Mrs. Reagan was influential in Regan's unceremonious departure from the White House. By then, hard feelings between the two were common knowledge in Washington. In recalling all _ the latest in a series of White House gossipy memoirs about disarray within the Reagan presidency _ Regan described how Raisa Gorbachev, the stylish wife of the Soviet leader, upstaged Nancy Reagan at their first social session _ a dinner during the 1985 Geneva summit. Mrs. Reagan was hostess, he wrote, but Mrs. Gorbachev ``did not confine herself, as most other wives of heads of state and government did in such meetings, to cross-chat with Mrs. Reagan on palace housewifery and other harmless subjects. ``Mrs. Gorbachev was a highly educated woman _ a professor of Marxist-Leninist theory,'' Regan said. ``At this dinner party and the later one at the Soviet Mission, she did not hesitate to make use of the opportunities offered to her to educate the president of the United States on the intellectual and philosophical basis of Soviet policy. ``It was evident that she was mistress of her subject, an intellectual with a truly impressive grasp of a specialty that she regarded as the key to understanding Soviet society and the world beyond,'' Regan recalled. ``Reagan listened to Mrs. Gorbachev's extremely detailed and fervently argued opinions with gallant courtesy. ``Gorbachev, like any husband in his circumstances, kept his peace,'' Regan said. ``Mrs. Reagan, however, chaffed under the monologue. After the door had closed behind the Gorbachevs, she said, `Who does that dame think she is?''' As for Reagan, he entertained the Gorbachevs with stories about his acting career. They questioned him about how movies are made and how the Hollywood stars live. ``The Gorbachevs devoured every detail,'' Regan said. ``Like any other movie buffs, they were very pleased to be in the company of somebody who had known Jimmy Stewart, John Wayne and Humphrey Bogart and nearly every other famous movie star personally, and was able to describe what they were really like. Regan wrote dryly that the president did not tell the leader of the communist world about his role of driving communists from the union during his terms as president of the Screen Actors Guild. Reagan tends to glow in the company of women, Regan wrote: ``The presence of Ambassador Jeane Kirkpatrick or Secretary of Transportation Elizabeth Dole at a Cabinet meeting always made for a heightened presidential mood; he was more amusing, more talkative, more of a participant than a presence. Regan said everyone who travels with the president has come to believe that Pan American World Airways assigns its prettiest stewardesses to the plane carrying the White House press corps. ``This happy circumstance did not escape the president's notice,'' he said. ``When Air Force One landed, the president always looked for thePan Am stewardesses from the press plane and gave them a fatherly wave. They waved back enthusiastically, pretty young women in their uniforms smiling at the most famous man in the world. ``It was a moment everyone looked forward to on presidential journeys.''
AP880405-0247 	X	Chrysler Corp. workers, anxious to receive the same benefits that General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co. workers received in new contracts last fall, are preparing contract demands for talks beginning April 18. Members of the United Auto Workers union's 140-member national Chrysler council were to begin arriving in Kansas City, Mo., today for a meeting with national UAW leaders and elected union bargainers. By Friday, the council planned to have discussed and approved demands that will guide how the industry pattern contract, established at the two larger companies, can be installed at the smallest Big Three automaker. The Chrysler contract, covering 59,500 active and 8,000 laid-off workers, expires Sept. 14. Talks are scheduled to begin April 18, instead of mid-July as usual. The two sides agreed to early talks to stem damage inflicted by friction over Chrysler's closing of an assembly plant in Kenosha, Wis., and the abortive sale of its 28,000-worker Acustar Inc. parts subsidiary. Chrysler was stunned by the speed and severity of the union's opposition to the proposed Acustar sale. Angry workers at locals across the nation began preparing ``strike packages'' _ lists of grievances over locally strikeable issues _ and stopped cooperating in crucial management-union programs aimed at improving quality and production efficiency. UAW Vice President Marc Stepp, who will lead negotiations with Chrysler, told workers at the time that he would give local unions with grievances permission to strike immediately. A few strikes at key assembly and parts plants could have crippled Chrysler as quickly as a national strike. Chrysler quickly backed down from the proposed sale in early March and agreed to early contract talks, a request it had refused last fall after the union wrapped up contracts at Ford and GM. Negotiators on both sides are limited to working within the pattern contract, which forbids layoffs except during declining sales of a particular product and requires automakers to continue paying workers whose jobs are lost to productivity improvements, new technology or transfer of work to outside suppliers. The pattern contract also includes joint six-month, plant-by-plant studies that will examine ways to strengthen operations and keep work inside each company. The UAW hopes the studies will make it harder for automakers to pit plant against plant in competition for a shrinking number of jobs. The UAW is expected to seek a two-year contract instead of the usual three-year pact so that its contracts with all Big Three makers will expire together in 1990. The union also will seek more representation on the Chrysler board of directors. UAW President Owen Bieber has a board seat, but the union believes holding more seats will give it more control over Chrysler decisions. Bargainers will work against an artificial target deadline instead of a strike deadline, so Chrysler faces no risk of a companywide strike if talks fail. Industry analysts expect a quick settlement. But a failure at the table would sour relations and make talks more difficult when the two sides were forced to resume bargaining in the summer.
AP880615-0285 	X	Early June brought a slight lull in domestic car and light trucks sales, which declined 4.1 percent from a year ago, but industry analysts said the dip stemmed from one-time rather than economic factors. ``There's no reason to think that underlying demand just for these 10 days has gotten slower,'' Kathleen Heaney, analyst with Nikko Securities International in New York, said Tuesday. ``Nothing's different in the economy for consumers all of a sudden.'' Domestic car sales in the nine selling days from June 1 to June 10 were down 4.8 percent from the same period a year earlier and domestic light truck sales were down 2.7 percent. The eight companies that build passenger vehicles in the United States sold 198,647 domestic cars and 112,945 domestic light trucks in early June, down from 208,699 cars and 116,000 trucks a year earlier. Industry analysts said sales were higher in early June 1987 because a new round of buyer incentives had just been launched. They noted that 1988 spring sales have held steady and consumer confidence remains strong. Car sales were down during the period for all domestic makers except Toyota Motor Corp., which was just beginning U.S. production last year, and Mazda Motor Corp., which began U.S. production last September. ``The last 10 days of May were very strong and may have borrowed some sales that normally would have occurred in the first 10 days of June,'' said Michael Luckey, president of Luckey Consulting Group in Cresskill, N.J. Luckey predicted sales will be higher during the rest of the month. ``The consumer remains in a buying mood,'' he said. General Motors Corp. sold 6.2 percent fewer domestic cars and 4.5 percent fewer domestic light trucks than in early June 1987. GM's combined car and light truck sales were down 5.7 percent from a year earlier. Ford Motor Co.'s domestic cars sales were down 3.2 percent and its domestic light truck sales lagged 6.9 percent behind year-earlier sales. Ford's combined domestic car and light truck sales were down 4.7 percent from a year earlier. Chrysler Corp.'s domestic car sales fell 6.4 percent but its domestic truck sales, which include the hot-selling Jeep lineup, rose 2 percent from early June 1987. Chrysler's combined domestic sales were down 2.5 percent from a year earlier. GM, the industry leader, held 45.6 percent of the combined domestic market, slightly less than its 46.8 percent share a year ago. Ford's share held nearly steady at 31.2 percent, while Chrysler's rose to 17.5 percent from 16.3 percent a year ago. Honda Motor Co.'s domestic car sales fell 0.3 percent, Volkswagen of America's sales were down 8 percent and Nissan Motor Co.'s sales fell 27.6 percent from early June 1987. Nissan's sales of domestically built trucks jumped 83.8 percent, reflecting the company's decision earlier this year to build more trucks than cars at its assembly plant in Smyrna, Tenn.
AP880622-0304 	X	Stock prices surged this morning in active trading, bolstered by the momentum of a late rally in the previous session and a strengthened dollar overseas. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials jumped 34.68 points to 2,143.85 by 10 a.m. on Wall Street, putting it at the highest level since the market crash eight months ago. Among broader market barometers, the New York Stock Exchange composite index of all listed issues rose 2.02 to 155.31. On the American Stock Exchange, the market value index rose 1.78 to 308.66. Gaining issues outnumbered declines by about 9-to-1 on the NYSE, with 982 up, 171 down and 306 unchanged. Volume totaled 44.8 million shares after the first 30 minutes of trading. IBM led the NYSE's most-active list, jumping 2} to 123. Other notable blue-chip gainers included Boeing, up 1] to 57{, General Electric, up | to 44[, and Eastman Kodak, up ~ to 46]. On Tuesday, the Dow Jones industrials rose 25.24 points to 2,109.17. Advancing issues outnumbered declines by about 9-to-5 in nationwide trading of NYSE-listed stocks, with 937 issues up, 543 down and 467 unchanged. Big Board volume totaled 155.06 million shares vs. 116.75 million previously.
AP880411-0039 	X	Average retail gasoline prices jumped more than a penny-a-gallon during the past two weeks nationwide and motorists can expect the increases to continue, an analyst said. The 1.18 cent-a-gallon increase for all grades of gasoline pushed the average price to 96.14 cents in the period ended April 8, according to the Lundberg Survey. Wholesale prices increased at twice the retail rate, analyst Trilby Lundberg said Sunday. ``This means retailers lost a penny of their operating margin during the period and it means that there is more price pressure to come in the immediate future,'' she said. According to the survey, prices per gallon at self-service pumps were: regular unleaded, 86.80 cents; premium unleaded, $101.84; regular leaded, 83.97 cents. Prices at full-service pumps were: regular unleaded, $116.93; premium unleaded, $127.20; regular leaded, $112.51.
AP880618-0014 	X	A convicted robber who doubled as a street vendor and poet has been sentenced to hang for the murder of reggae star Peter Tosh and two of his friends. A jury of eight women and four men took six minutes Friday to convict Dennis Lobban, 33, on three counts of murder. Justice Carl Patterson then sentenced him to hang. Throughout the trial which began Monday, Lobban insisted he was innocent. He claimed he was drinking with friends far from Tosh's house the night of Sept. 11, 1987, when Tosh, radio disc jockey Jeff Dixon and Wilton ``Doc'' Brown were gunned down during a robbery at Tosh's home. Four others survived the attack. Lobban, a convicted felon with a long police record, was out on parole when the murders were committed. Steve Russell, 26, of Kingston, who had been charged jointly with Lobban, was freed on Thursday. Russell's lawyer argued successfully that the prosecution failed to show Russell was involved in the slayings. Russell claimed he only drove the killers to Tosh's home without going inside or knowing they were going to kill Tosh. Lobban is a ``higgler,'' or street vendor, and a ``dub poet,'' who recites poetry to reggae music. He has been convicted of eight previous felons, ranging from illegal possession of firearms to armed robbery. Lobban was escorted from court by armed guards and taken to prison to join 188 other people on death row. Any appeal would go to the Jamaican Court of Appeal. The final court of appeal is the Privy Council in England. Tosh, 42 years old at the time of his death, was nominated for a Grammy in 1985 for his album, ``Captured Live.'' In 1963, Tosh, Bob Marley and Neville Livingstone formed the group The Wailers, which catapulted reggae's easy rhythms from the slums of Kingston onto the world stage. Born Winston Herbert MacIntosh, Tosh left The Wailers in 1973. One later Tosh group was Word, Sound and Power. Outside Jamaica, Tosh was perhaps best known for his collaboration with Rolling Stones lead singer Mick Jagger on the Smokey Robinson song, ``(You Got To) Walk and Don't Look Back,'' and for his hit, ``Legalize It,'' a plea for the legalization of marijuana.
AP900125-0033 	X	Sen. Bob Dole's proposal to boost aid to Eastern Europe and Panama by cutting funds from major recipients like Israel and Egypt is ``shortsighted and detrimental'' to U.S. interests, 22 Republican House members say. The House members wrote to President Bush on Wednesday to express ``our strong opposition to the Dole foreign aid plan,'' which would slice money from Israel, Egypt, Turkey, the Philippines and Pakistan. ``We believe this is the wrong approach to the burgeoning needs of Eastern Europe,'' said the House members, led by Reps. Vin Weber of Minnesota and Bill McCollum of Florida. ``To reward one ally at the expense of another would be shortsighted and detrimental to American interests,'' they said. At the same time, Sen. Nancy Kassebaum, Dole's Republican colleague from Kansas, said she supported Dole and hoped his plan would lead to ``serious review and substantive reform'' of foreign aid. Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, D-Maine, has not taken a stand on the issue, but he is holding meetings with Democratic colleagues to discuss foreign aid, his aides said. Kassebaum, who has introduced legislation to change the way foreign aid is divided up, criticized Congress for ``earmarking'' _ locking up _ 80 percent of the foreign aid budget. As a result, U.S. officials have no flexibility to deal with unforeseen circumstances, she said in a speech on the Senate floor. ``With earmarking, we have set up a system that prevents us from responding to opportunities'' like those in Eastern Europe, she said. Dole suggested changing the 1990 foreign aid budget that earmarks about $3 billion to Israel, slightly less to Egypt, about $500 million each to Turkey and Pakistan and some $160 million in economic aid to the Philippines. His plan would trim 5 percent from the big recipients, creating about $400 million that could go to Eastern Europe and Panama. Many have criticized Dole's plan. ``It's not going anywhere. Period,'' said Sen. Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. Debate on the 1991 foreign aid bill is expected to start soon, once the Bush administration unveils its requests next week. Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., chairman of the Senate appropriations subcommittee on foreign operations, has said his panel will hold hearings ``reexamining U.S. foreign aid priorities in light of the vast changes in the international situation.'' ``As far as I'm concerned, every program in the fiscal 1991 foreign aid appropriation will be reviewed,'' Leahy said in a statement. On Jan. 18, Israeli Defense Minister Yitzhak Rabin met with Bush administration officials and later said he had ``reasons to believe'' U.S. aid to his country would hold steady at $3 billion a year through 1991. But he expressed concern about aid beyond next year.
AP901107-0196 	X	At an unusual prayer breakfast, South African Foreign Minister Pik Botha urged three black African leaders Wednesday to ``join hands'' in regional cooperation. Botha, who represented President F. W. de Klerk, addressed the heads of state as ``my African brothers'' during the informal meeting, which was punctuated by joking and laughter. The breakfast host was Zambian President Kenneth Kaunda, head of the seven-nation Frontline States, a regional bloc that once led efforts to end apartheid in South Africa. The other two leaders were President Joaquim Chissano of Mozambique, who maintains close contacts with South Africa, and President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda, the current chairman of the 51-member Organization of African unity. President Bush sent a congratulatory message, saying the meeting ``marks a new era in Africa.'' The get-together over eggs, bacon and croissants signaled a further easing of tensions between white-led South Africa and its anti-apartheid neighbors. Zambian officials said it was made possible by de Klerk's recent steps toward dismantling apartheid, including legalizing the African National Congress, freeing political prisoners including the ANC leader Nelson Mandela, and lifting the state of emergency in black townships. The ANC, outlawed for 30 years in South Africa, had its headquarters in the Zambian capital of Lusaka until early this year. Kaunda, once one of the most vocal African critics of apartheid, said the theme of the meeting was ``peace, unity and reconciliation.'' Botha told the black African leaders that South Africa could help economic development in the largely impoverished region, adding: ``We in Africa must join hands and move closer together.'' ``South Africa must play its rightful role in southern Africa and we are ready to play that role,'' Botha said. Ugandan President Museveni said he got the idea for such a meeting from a prayer breakfast he attended with U.S. congressmen two years ago. He wanted to organize something similar, he said, but as he was not a good Christian he asked Kaunda to be host. Three other African heads of state, Quett Masire of Botswana, Pierre Buyoya of Burundi and Metsing Lekhanya of Lesotho, were invited but did not attend.
AP900220-0246 	X	New European business and better profit margins on North American sales boosted Whirlpool Corp.'s fourth-quarter earnings nearly 21 percent, the appliance manufacturer said Tuesday. Whirlpool said earned $49.4 million, or 71 cents a share, in the three months ended Dec. 31, compared with a loss of $12 million, or 17 cents a share, in the fourth quarter of 1988. The year-earlier period included a $45 million loss on the sale of Whirlpool's kitchen cabinet business. The company's 1989 fourth-quarter results include $9.2 million in writedowns connection with Whirlpool's plans to close its Mount Sterling, Ky., plant. Revenue totaled $1.57 billion, up from $1.02 billion in the fourth quarter of 1988, the company said. For the year, Whirlpool said it earned $187.2 million, or $2.70 a share, on revenue of $6.29 billion, up from $94.1 million, or $1.36 a share, on revenue of $4.42 billion, in in 1988. Whirlpool became the world's largest appliance concern with the January 1989 acquisition of a $470 million stake in the appliance division of Dutch electronics giant NV Philips. In line with the agreement, the company said 1989 results included all of the revenue of the joint venture, Whirlpool International BV, and 53 percent of its net earnings. Whirlpool International's performance and strong sales in North America helped boost earnings, the company said. However, these gains were offset by several factors, including higher interest expense and taxes, Whirlpool said. David R. Whitwam, Whirlpool chairman and chief executive officer, predicted flat sales to come and said wage cuts accepted by Whirlpool workers in Evansville, Ind., would help keep costs competitive. Whitwam predicted appliance sales would be down slightly in the first half of 1990, possibly rallying in the second half of the year.
AP880814-0081 	X	A peace activist broke a 63-day liquid-only fast _ one day for each million dollars allegedly spent on ``Rambo III'' _ by biting into a giant pizza with a pepperoni peace sign and delivering it to Sylvester Stallone's door. Jerry Rubin, a Southern California campaigner against cinema violence and war toys, didn't see Stallone but was more graciously received Saturday than in a previous visit to a Stallone residence when someone squirted him with water over a wall. The actor's housekeeper even obliged when Rubin needed to do a retake of his stunt for TV cameras. Rubin's wife, Marissa, and two friends were on hand as the activist went to Stallone's home and, with media watching, presented the pizza to a housekeeper. When a television crew arrived late, Rubin went back to the door and got his pizza back to re-enact the event. At one point, the unwieldy, 3-foot-wide pizza slipped off its cardboard platter and onto the concrete driveway. After his first bite in 63 days, Rubin said he was looking forward ``to watching movies with popcorn again.'' One of the placards carried by the group read, ``Sly, Give Pizza A Chance.'' Rubin said he hoped his attempt at humor would open a line of communication with Stallone and other makers of violent films. ``We need to reach them to open up that dialogue because it has gotten out of hand,'' he said. ``In 10 or 20 years from now we're going to pay a sad price, because these films not only have a negative effect on children but they have a negative effect on everyone.''
AP900424-0061 	X	Hundreds of policemen deserted their posts or stayed home today after anti-monarchist mobs beat to death six of their colleagues in daylong rioting, government sources said. At least three police stations in the capital were seen to be empty. Almost none of the capital's 4,000 policemen were walking the streets. A few armed policemen entered deserted police stations late today but allowed no one to enter. A 10-hour curfew restricting people to their homes began at 7 p.m. and some policemen in jeeps and trucks patrolled the city. Monday's violence was the worst since April 6, when police opened fire on pro-democracy demonstrators, and threatened the fledgling pro-democracy movement in this Himalayan kingdom. Until this month, King Birendra had exercised virtually absolute power. Five civilians were killed by police gunfire in Monday's unrest and, according to the state-owned Rashtriya Samachar Samiti news agency, 15 policemen were missing. Only one policeman had been found by late today. The mobs accused police of condoning and sometimes joining an underground pro-monarchist group blamed for a wave of crime since a new government headed by pro-democracy forces took office last week. Two policemen captured early Monday were beaten for more than six hours before they died. Four more policemen were dragged from a police station and lynched by hundreds of people. The crowds also set afire the zonal commissioner's office, which houses a police station. Today, two policemen in riot gear stood guard outside the charred building. They were the only policemen seen on foot during an hour-long tour of Katmandu. ``There are no policemen anywhere in the city,'' said a taxi driver who said he had been driving the streets for six hours. ``Even traffic policemen are absent today.'' One government source said the policemen were either ``unofficially withdrawn or are too scared to come out.'' Senior police officials could not be located for comment. But shops opened and streets were clogged with traffic today after a ten-hour curfew clamped on Monday night was lifted at 6 a.m.. There were no reports of violence. ``The tremendous amount of confidence the people have in this government is compensating for the absence of police,'' said Home Minister Yog Prasad Upadhyay. ``This is apparent from the fact that ... the country is peaceful.'' Prime Minister Krishna Prasad Bhattarai met with King Birendra today to discuss the situation, officials said. No details of the meeting were available. A scheduled meeting of the Cabinet was postponed, officials said on condition of anonymity. There had been indications a shake-up in the top ranks of the police force might be forthcoming after the Cabinet meeting. Bhattarai and his government, a coalition of democrats, Communists, royalists and independents, took office last Thursday after an eight-week campaign against the previous regime, which was subservient to the king. King Birendra caved in to the campaign on April 8, two days after police shot and killed 200 demonstrators as they marched on the palace, according to witnesses. The government said 10 people were killed and 107 wounded in all of Nepal on that day, but two days later Birendra lifted a 29-year ban on political parties. Within 24 hours of the new government taking office, the capital of 250,000 people was faced with a rash of arson, mugging and looting, which residents blamed on a right-wing pro-monarchist group called Mandale. The Mandale, an abbreviated form of Nepal Vidyarthi Mandal, or Nepal students group, went underground in 1979 after Birendra officially banned the group because of its violent tendencies.
AP900627-0210 	X	In a move that completed a tumultuous, six-month shakeup of top management, Apple Computer Inc. hired Robert Puette, a longtime Hewlett-Packard Co. executive, to lead the company's domestic division. As president of Apple USA, Puette will be responsible for all sales, marketing and support activities in this country. Puette, whose appointment was announced Tuesday, worked 24 years at Hewlett-Packard, where he led the launch, development and expansion of its worldwide personal computer business. Most recently, he was general manager of Hewlett-Packard's Personal Computer Group. ``Bob Puette's arrival marks a major milestone in the development of Apple's USA business,'' said Michael Spindler, Apple's chief operating officer. ``He has a proven ability to effectively manage large, complex organizations. He's demonstrated exceptional business and technical expertise in the global personal computer market. And he's known for his strong and thoughtful leadership.'' Puette, 48, joins Apple on July 1. He fills a vacancy left by the sudden resignation in January of Allen Loren. Puette will report to Spindler, who was promoted to his position after Loren resigned. Apple, ranked No. 2 behind Hewlett-Packard in the personal computer market, badly needs help in the domestic market. The job of Apple USA's president is considered so tough that several leading candidates turned it down, industry sources said. High prices for its computers have lost the company sales in homes, schools and small businesses. In addition, morale in Apple's U.S. operations has been shaken by layoffs and employee unrest over various corporate issues, including high salaries paid to key managers, analysts said. ``I think that this is the turning point for Apple USA,'' Puette said. ``I think the turmoil is going to pretty well disappear and you're going to see some strong marketing messages from the company.'' New, low-cost machines expected to be announced later this year will have a significant impact on the market, Puette predicted.
AP880512-0201 	X	Thunderstorms drenched the Texas Gulf Coast on Thursday as rain fell across much of the lower Mississippi Valley. Most of the nation had sunny skies. Southern California sweltered, while showers were widely scattered across Wisconsin and Michigan, northeast Florida and the northern Pacific Coast. Heaviest rainfall during the 6 hours ending at 2 p.m. EDT included 4.10 inches near Corpus Christi, Texas. Other reports were of less than one-half inch. Temperatures at 3 p.m. EDT ranged from 44 degrees at both Houghton and Sault Ste. Marie, Mich., to 108 degrees at Palm Springs, Calif. The nation's morning low was 18 degrees at Gunnison, Colo. Friday's forecast called for rain and occasional thundershowers in northern New England, the lower Great Lakes and the upper Ohio Valley and across much of Florida, and showers from the northern Pacific Coast across the northern Plateau. High temperatures were expected to reach the 50s and 60s over northern Maine, the Great Lakes, the upper Mississippi Valley and along the northern and central Pacific Coast; the 90s to about 110 degrees from the desert Southwest through inland portions of southern California, and the 70s and 80s elsewhere.
AP900113-0096 	X	President Ion Iliescu on Saturday reversed a decision to ban the Communist Party, calling it a ``hasty decision,'' and instead said the issue will be decided in a national referendum. Iliescu responded to widespread protests Friday by announcing that the Communist Party, the sole ruler of Romania from 1948 until last month, had been outlawed. In a nationwide television and radio broadcast, Iliescu said the governing National Salvation Front had been criticized for the action, and he said the people will decide the fate of the Communists in a Jan. 28 referendum. ``It was a hasty decision, contrary to the democratic spirit,'' Iliescu said of Friday's announcement. Iliescu complained that popular pressures had even led some Front members to consider resigning. ``Then we realized that in this way, we would leave an open road to anarchy and chaos in the country. which would be a genuine national disaster,'' said Iliescu, who took office after the popular revolution that ousted Ceausescu. ``We need the massive support of the whole country.'' ``The Communist Party self-destructed or was removed from political life on Dec. 22,'' he added, referring to the day dictator Nicolae Ceausescu was overthrown. ``The Front is against any leading role of any party. We are in a dramatic moment because we inherited an extremely difficult decision from the dictatorship. We need patience, wisdom and unity,'' he said. The Jan. 28 referendum also will include the question of whether to reinstitute the death penalty, which was abolished by the revolutionary leadership after the executions of Ceausescu and his wife, Elena. There have been nationwide calls to bring back the death penalty by those who feel life imprisonment is too lenient a punishment for crimes committed by Ceausescu cronies as well as by members of the Securitate, Ceausescu's dreaded special police. Police said 11 Securitate members will stand trial Monday in Timisoara, the birthplace of the revolution, where street protests of official foot-dragging led the army to assume control Friday night. The army controlled the city, the birthplace of Romania's revolution, on Saturday after local leaders were forced to resign amid street protests demanding the ouster of Communists from the revolutionary government. The army takeover apparently was an administrative measure and did not mean the region was under martial law. The army's support was crucial to Ceausescu's overthrow. Shooting continued until Friday in Timisoara and the city of Arad near the Hungarian border, between army units and members of Ceausescu's Securitate, the Yugoslav state news agency Tanjug reported. Thousands of people took to the streets on Friday in Bucharest, Timisoara and Brasov to demand reinstatement of the death penalty for Securitate members and to protest the participation of Communists in the interim government. No demonstrations were reported in Romania on Saturday. Lorin Fortuna, the leader of Timisoara's local National Salvation Front council, resigned after demonstrators complained the council was doing nothing about Securitate forces being held, according to a police official who identified himself only as Capt. Streza. The Securitate defendants to be tried in public on Monday in response to the popular pressure include a general, whom Streza did not name. The army took power to guarantee law and order and uninterrupted municipal services until elections planned by Jan. 19, Streza said in a telephone interview, quoting Maj. Gen. Gheorghe Popescu, commander of the armed forces in Timis county. The county's chief city is Timisoara. A new administrative council will be elected by representatives of factories and other organizations and institutions within the region, according to a Tanjug report. All leading members of Romania's Communist Party are under arrest for investigation of their role in the regime run with an iron hand by Ceausescu, who was overthrown Dec. 22 and executed Christmas Day. The Ceausescus' three-hour trial at an undisclosed location 60 miles from Bucharest was described Saturday in the newspaper Libertatea, which carried an interview with Niki Tedorescu, whom it identified as their attorney. ``They refused any cooperation with us. They did not understand what we said,'' Tedorescu recalled. ``Ceausescu kept repeating that he did not recognize the tribunal.'' ``They denied they had any property, or any luxury property,'' said Tedorescu, who was interviewed at a military hospital where he was recovering from a bullet wound received in the fighting in Bucharest. After his overthrow, Romanian media reported the feudal splendor in which the Ceausescu family lived while their countrymen did without the most basic commodities. ``I didn't expect them to be so uneducated,'' Tedorescu said. ``Both of them, but especially her (Mrs. Ceausescu), were disobeying all the laws of grammar.'' Mrs. Ceausescu was touted by the regime as a key intellectual with major scientific achievements. Officially, she held a doctorate in chemistry. ``I was surprised they looked so well, even in the state they were in, trembling with fear. I thought that in spite of their age, they looked better than me, and I am much younger.'' Asked his last words to Ceausescu after the death sentence was passed, Tedorescu answered: ``According to the law, I asked him if he objected to the (death) sentence, and he indicated no. He was convinced in my opinion that he would not be executed.'' The Ceausescus were executed shortly after the trial.
AP881103-0171 	X	Each of the presidential candidates have pledged that if elected, he will appoint a member of his transition team to work with U.S. nuclear arms control negotiators, senators who chair an oversight group said Thursday. The promises by Vice President George Bush and Gov. Michael Dukakis were made in response to requests from the Senate arms control observer group. Sen. Claiborne Pell, D-R.I., co-chairman of the group, said the pledges will help the ongoing U.S.-Soviet effort to work out a treaty making deep reductions in the superpowers' stockpile of long-range atomic weapons.
AP881122-0151 	X	An American among hostages taken into Beirut from a TWA jetliner hijacked in June 1985 testified Tuesday that Moslem radicals threatened to put them back on board and blow up the plane. Allyn Conwell, testifying at the trial of confessed hijacker Mohammed Ali Hamadi, also said he was convinced he would be shot when he and others were initially taken from the plane. Hamadi, a Lebanese Shiite Moslem, is charged with murder and air piracy in the hijacking during which U.S. Navy diver Robert Stethem was killed and 39 Americans were held hostage for 17 days. Hamadi has confessed to the hijacking but denies killing Stethem. Conwell, a 43-year-old Houston executive, said the last 39 American hostages aboard the seized TWA jetliner were taken off the plane while Hamadi and his accomplice were sleeping. He said four American servicemen earlier had been removed from the plane by Hezbollah, a radical Shiite Moslem group backed by Iran, while the remaining Americans were in the custody of Amal, a more moderate Shiite militia. As delicate negotiations for the hostages' release ran into snags, Amal officials told Conwell ``the original hijackers were getting very upset over the lack of progress in negotiations,'' he testified. ``I was told the intention was to return all the hostages to the plane and blow it up,'' Conwell said. The hostages were shifted around different locations in Beirut until their release, he said. Conwell, who said he had been so ``terrorized that I was virtually immobile'' after the plane was hijacked on a flight from Athens to Rome, told the court that conditions improved for the hostages once they were under control of Amal. ``I was under the impression that Amal absolutely did not approve of the hijacking and the murder of Stethem,'' he testified. ``I think they acted to the best of their ability in a chaotic situation.'' During a break in the court proceedings, jailers could not free Hamadi from the court security room in which he is locked and had to use a cutting torch to open the door. Hamadi was arrested at Frankfurt Airport in January 1987 after customs officials found liquid explosives in his luggage.
AP880324-0197 	X	A turkey chase left 71-year-old Lucille Andrews stuck in the mud in her car for two days. ``Miss Curiosity'' had a wonderful time. When she was located Wednesday by frantic relatives, the St. Clair County woman said she spent her time spying on wildlife, and wasn't concerned about food and water. ``I was no more scared than I am right now,'' Mrs. Andrews said from her home. ``I knew someone would find me.'' The air and ground search began after she was reported missing Monday afternoon. Mrs. Andrews said she had been out driving, and caught site of a turkey. ``I saw that turkey going out there and I thought, `You fool thing. If you got a nest out there, I'm going to follow you and find you,''' she said. She followed the turkey across a field, but her car got stuck in a swampy ditch. ``At night, I locked the doors and rolled up the windows and went to sleep. During the day, I looked around and thought, `Boy I'd like to have my house up on that hill,''' she said. Mrs. Andrews didn't see the turkey again, but did see three deer and a bear cub. ``The moon was shining so bright that I raised my head up and there was a little old bear. He was just a baby,'' she said. While Mrs. Andrews communed with nature, her eight children, most of her 15 grandchildren and assorted friends and relatives formed a ``family posse'' that combed the woods around her house. ``We were driving everywhere,'' said grandson Mark Andrews, 21. Andrews said his grandmother, who walks with a cane because of arthritis, is called ``Miss Curiosity'' by family members because ``she's always doing something.'' ``I hate housework and all of that stuff, but I do love to drive,'' Mrs. Andrew said. ``If I had to stay in the house I think I would die.''
AP901001-0186 	X	Rangers and tourists celebrated Yosemite's unique status as the granite gem of the Sierra on the park's 100th birthday Monday. A moment of silence recalling the tranquillity before humans came to Yosemite Valley highlighted a centennial ceremony in sun-drenched Sentinel Meadow. The silence was broken only by a blue jay's shrieks. ``Yosemite is not just for today; it is for the children and their children tomorrow,'' said Yosemite Indian Jay Johnson, reciting a traditional Miwok Indian blessing. Lee Stetson, who depicted naturalist John Muir during the ceremony, said ``wilderness is a necessity ... as fountains of life and fountains of people. If enough of us go among spirits of this wilderness, ... we need not despair.'' President Bush, restricted by the Middle East crisis, did not attend as expected, leaving it to other federal officials to depict the legacy of Yosemite in the majestic Sierra range. ``Given all the history relating to Yosemite and all of its controversies, still it's a marvelous place for the American public to see,'' Superintendent Michael Finley said in an interview. The history ranges from Muir's unswerving commitment to make Yosemite a national park in the late 1800s to lighting-caused fires that blackened 23,000 acres this summer, forcing an 11-day closure. Critics blame the National Park Service for failing to carry out a 1980 plan to remove most public facilities from the narrow valley, which is visited by 3.4 million people a year. Park Service Director James Ridenour said this summer that funds will be budgeted to relocate maintenance facilities. Another issue involves a concession contract with Yosemite Park & Curry Co., a subsidiary of the MCA entertainment conglomerate. An environmental group announced plans last week to take over the contract to run the park's hotels, restaurants and concession stands. The contract expires in 1993. Despite such issues, Finley said the Park Service has been a good steward of Yosemite and its famous features such as El Capitan, Half Dome and Yosemite Falls. ``We believe we've seen 100 years of preservation, and we're working hard to ensure that the next 100 years are even going to be better for the visitors and the park,'' Finley said. ``We've undertaken major programs for restoration of the ecology, reintroduced Bighorn sheep, recovered peregrine falcons - up to four nesting pairs at this point,'' he said. ``We're restoring trampled down meadows, replanting oak trees, have a major program to restore the Merced River and will undertake another program on the Tuolumne River and our lakes.'' No one would appear to know more of Yosemite's history than 87-year-old Carl Sharsmith, who has served as a naturalist in Tuolumne Meadows almost every summer for six decades. ``My duties are light,'' Sharsmith said. ``I get a group and go for a bit of a walk and chat along the way - three hours at the most.'' The park's centennial is attracting more attention in the area than did the historic formation of the park by Congress on Oct. 1, 1890. Back then, the weekly Mariposa Gazette, the closest community newspaper, put the story of Yosemite's beginning on page 2.
AP880616-0262 	X	The stock market tumbled today, mirroring a plunge in bond prices and wiping out gains posted in the previous two, record-setting sessions. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials, which struggled to reach its second consecutive post-crash high Wednesday, was down 37.69 points at 2,093.71 an hour before the closing bell. Volume on the Big Board came to 139.77 million shares. Losers led gainers by about 3 to 1 with 388 up, 1,105 down and 442 unchanged as of 3 p.m. on Wall Street. While the Dow was off the entire session, the key index fell through the psychologically important 2,100-point level in mid-afternoon. Analysts had hoped that the Dow was solidly above the mark and that it would serve as a floor for a further advance. Market watchers said the decline was triggered by disarray in the credit markets, which were reacting to an unsubstantiated report in a West Germany newspaper that indicated the central Bundesbank might be tightening monetary policy. ``There are some indications that Japan might be doing the same, and that says effectively that if the Federal Reserve wants to keep the dollar stable, it will not give interest rates much room to decline,'' said Hugh Johnson, senior vice president at Frist Albany Corp. The Treasury's bellwether 30-year issue was off 1\ points, or $12.50 per $1,000 in face value at midday. ``Everybody is picking up on its cue,'' Johnson said. The dollar also fell in value. ``Let's face it, it's the rates that call the turn,'' said Larry Wachtel, first vice president at Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. ``The whole stock market turns on interest rates.'' A pull-back in stock prices has been anticipated since the Dow has climbed more than 200 points in recent weeks. But analysts described today's drop, which was exacerbated by profit-taking, as jolting. ``In the last two days, the market's performance has been impressive,'' Johnson said. ``This just points out what thin ice we're on.'' Analysts fear a crack in the confidence that has been building, but lower stock prices also could bring out some bargain hunters. ``We would use any weakness as a buying opportunity,'' one trader said. Among actively traded issues, Texaco was down ] at 49{. The oil company, which will face off against Carl Icahn it its annual shareholders meeting Friday, announced a joint venture with a Saudi Arabian oil company. General Electric was off } at 42}. The company said it will acquire Borg-Warner's chemical division for $2.31 billion in cash. Elsewhere, Deere Co. was off 2\ at 46{, Philip Morris was off 1[at 83[, and Smithkline Beckman was off 8| at 46]. The pharmaceutical company predicted 1988 operating earnings will be below last year's levels. The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks fell 2.41 at 152.26. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index was off 2.02 at 306.76.
AP881101-0078 	X	Four people were fatally shot and eight wounded in gang-style attacks across Southern California on Halloween and early today, and a 15-month-old boy died a day after he was shot in the head outside a birthday party. An unidentified 20-year-old man was killed early today while walking on a street in Monrovia, about 15 miles northeast of Los Angeles, sheriff's Deputy Detta Roberts said. A gang connection was being investigated; no arrests were made. In southwest Los Angeles, a 19-year-old man reputed to be a gang member was killed late Monday night when rival gang members ambushed a group of young people as they left a liquor store, officials said. Four people were wounded, one of them critically. The name of the man who was killed was not immediately released, and there were no arrests. In San Diego, two unidentified men were killed and three men wounded in three street shootings Monday night, authorities reported. Dalafayette Polk, the toddler injured in the birthday party shooting Sunday in the Watts section of Los Angeles, died at 12:30 p.m. Monday, said Paitoon Wisuskeow, a nurse at Martin Luther King Jr.-Drew Medical Center. Nine other people were wounded in the shooting Sunday night, one of the worst outbreaks of street violence by youth gangs. Police had made no arrests by early today. In downtown Los Angeles, a 15-year-old identified by police as a gang member was shot twice Monday night by by gang members driving by, said police Officer J.R. Smith. The teen-ager was reported in satisfactory condition at California Medical Center today.
AP900112-0236 	X	Stock prices fell sharply today as new inflation worries and market declines in Tokyo and London set a gloomy mood for Wall Street. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials tumbled 44.16 points to 2,716.51 by noontime in New York. Losers outnumbered gainers by about 8 to 1 in nationwide trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed issues, with 173 up, 1,394 down and 301 unchanged. The Labor Department reported that the producer price index of finished goods rose 0.7 percent in December, exceeding most advance estimates for that measure of inflationary pressures. The index finished 1989 with an increase of 4.8 percent, its biggest in eight years. Analysts said the news dealt an abrupt setback to hopes on Wall Street for any further moves soon by the Federal Reserve to relax its credit policy and encourage lower interest rates. Stock traders also were absorbing word of overnight declines in the Japanese and British markets, where interest-rate and inflation worries have also been weighing down enthusiasm lately. Among actively traded blue chips, General Electric dropped 1 to 63}; Exxon ~ to 48&lsqb;; International Business Machines 1 to 98~; Coca-Cola 1| to 74}, and Philip Morris ~ to 39&lsqb;. Precious-metals stocks, which have been rallying of late along with the price of gold, bucked the downtrend. Homestake Mining gained &rsqb; to 22&lsqb;; ASA Ltd. 1&lsqb; to 62&rsqb;, and Newmont Gold &rsqb; to 54}. The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks fell 2.94 to 189.84. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index was down 4.46 at 374.89. Volume on the Big Board came to 92.37 million shares at noontime, up from 76.09 million at the same point Thursday.
AP901024-0272 	X	Polly Peck International PLC, the troubled British food and electronics conglomerate, asked for court assistance Tuesday to sort out its $1.95 billion debt woes. The decision to apply for a court-appointed administrator followed weeks of wrangling with creditors over financing. The company, which was forced to suspend trading of its shares on the London stock market Sept. 20, said in a brief statement its board ``resolved'' to take the action. A Polly Peck spokesman added, ``The company believes that taking this step will result in the survival of the company and its operations as going concerns.'' Court administration is a form of bankruptcy which enables the company to reduce its debt in an orderly fashion with the guidance of the British courts. It does not always mean the company concerned will be liquidated. The court administrator will decide whether Polly Peck's debts can be serviced through existing operations or through a partial or full liquidation of the company. Company officials held a series of meetings with bankers throughout the day Wednesday. In the past week Polly Peck chairman and chief executive Asil Nadir has tried to round up financial support in Turkey and northern Cyprus. Polly Peck, which has operating subsidiaries in the United States, urkey and Japan, has been operating under a temporary debt standstill agreement since Oct. 5. The company sought the moratorium after creditors withdrew about 100 million pounds, or $195 million, in short-term financing and pressed for answers on the financial status of the company after its share suspension. The moratorium was scheduled to expire Nov. 9. Nadir has been dogged in the British press by allegations of links to a reputed Polly Peck share-support scheme. The company and Nadir, who was questioned by the Serious Fraud Office Sept. 20, have denied any knowledge of wrongdoing. Bankers have called Polly Peck's troubles a crisis of confidence. They said in the early stages of talks that they were inclined to give the company time to sort out its financial troubles. Polly Peck's status, however, deteriorated sharply in recent days as bankers pressed the company for answers about Nadir's finance-hunting trip to Turkey and northern Cyprus. Their growing unease was signalled by calls for early repayment of outstanding debts, and more significantly by the move of National Bank of Canada on Monday to petition the British courts to liquidate the company to meet its debts.
AP901126-0043 	X	The Foreign Ministry said today Iraq's failure to free 1,000 Soviets could lead to a ``tougher attitude'' toward Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. Foreign Ministry spokesman Vitaly Churkin demanded the immediate release of the Soviets. He also told reporters Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze met with Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz of Iraq for four hours today to reiterate the demand that Iraq withdraws its troops from Kuwait. Churkin said Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal of Saudi Arabia would meet with Shevardnadze on Tuesday to discuss the Persian Gulf crisis. He said Iraq agree to allow 1,000 Soviets, mostly contract workers, to leave during November but that only about 350 were permitted to do so. When Iraq invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2, there were about 8,000 Soviets, including several hundred military advisers, in Iraq. About 3,000 Soviets, including women and children, were allowed to leave shortly after the invasion and about 1,000 left during September and October. Churkin said Iraq agreed to allow another 1,000 to leave in November, but is not living up to its promise. ``Iraq is not keeping its agreement that our citizens will not be prevented from leaving,'' he said. ``This is totally abnormal and unacceptable.'' He added, ``If Iraq does not immediately remove obstacles and allow our citizens to leave, this will complicate the present situation even further and force us to take a tougher attitude.'' Churkin said that to his knowledge, no Soviets were being detained at potential military targets. ``All (Soviet) nationals are still where they were before the crisis,'' he said. Iraq has prevented hundreds of foreigners from leaving Iraq and Kuwait since Saddam Hussein's troops overran the emirate four months ago. It has been slowly releasing some foreigners.
AP880504-0257 	X	Dall Forsythe, son of ``Dynasty'' television star John Forsythe, is getting his own dynasty of sorts _ New York state's budget. Gov. Mario Cuomo on Wednesday named him budget director. Forsythe, whose mother is actress Parker McCormick, succeeds R. Wayne Diesel, who announced his resignation last week to join an investment bank. Forsythe joined the Cuomo administration as deputy budget director in January 1986 and became director of Cuomo's Office of Management and Productivity in September. He had previously worked at Shearson Lehman Brothers as a senior vice president for investment banking and has a doctorate in political science from Columbia University and has taught political science and finance at Columbia. Forsythe, 45, will be paid $92,059. The budget director is the governor's chief fiscal adviser and is largely responsible for handling the executive branch's end of state budget negotiations. The budget director also is largely responsible for formulating the governor's annual budget proposal.
AP881109-0125 	X	Right-wing extremists spray-painted swastikas and pro-Nazi slogans on a synagogue in a Bavarian village on the eve of ceremonies marking the Kristallnacht anniversary, police said today. The swastikas and words ``Heil Hitler'' were sprayed Tuesday on the synagogue's outside wall in large letters with black paint, police in Binswangen said. Binswangen is a small village in southern West Germany. Police said they removed the swastikas and Nazi slogan in time for a 50th anniversary Kristallnacht ceremony in the synagogue today. The Binswangen synagogue was one of hundreds of Jewish houses of worship attacked by Nazis on Nov. 9, 1938. The Moorish-style synagogue was reconstructed after the war. Police said they had not identified any suspects.
AP900615-0031 	X	The nation's mayors, much like the White House and Congress, aren't quite sure how big of a peace dividend will result from planned cuts in defense spending. But they want half _ whatever the amount. The mayors open their annual summer meeting here today poised to demand that much of the defense savings be funneled to cities to help ease education, drug and housing problems they increasingly blame on the White House and Congress. ``The federal government has walked away from the cities of America and now we are beginning to see the dangerous results,'' said Boston Mayor Raymond Flynn, a leading spokesman for the mayors. ``There are signs that cannot be ignored, even through the best set of rose-colored glasses,'' Flynn said. He listed among his examples gang violence in his and several other cities and recent tensions in New York resulting from court proceedings against whites accused of participating in a mob attack last summer that left a black teen-ager dead. ``This isn't a Republican or a Democratic problem alone or a big-city problem alone or a liberal or conservative mayors' problem alone,'' Flynn said. ``This is an American problem that is gnawing at the social conscience of the American public.'' Flynn this year moves up to the vice presidency of the U.S. Conference of Mayors, which is dominated by big-city Democratic mayors who are frequent critics of the Republican Bush administration. But even the organization's Republicans are voicing rising frustration with White House priorities. ``We have considerable mandates placed upon us by the federal government with less and less funding to carry them out,'' said Republican Mayor Robert Isaac of Colorado Springs, Colo., who takes over as president of the conference. ``We are not asking for a handouts. We are asking for fairness.'' The mayors will debate dozens of policy statements on an array of issues, with a clear consensus in advance of the meeting in favor of a proposal to demand that cities get half of any peace dividend. But after a decade of cuts in federal aid to cities, few mayors are optimistic their demand will be met. ``I'm not so naive as to believe the White House and the Congress are going to listen to us mayors,'' Flynn said in an interview Thursday. ``What we as an organization have to do is generate political support. American cities are in deep trouble.'' The mayors also will consider adopting dozens of policy statements on health care, housing and other issues _ many similar to stances taken at past meetings. Another asks the federal government not to hurt local real estate markets by selling at bargain-basement prices properties it controls because of savings and loan failures. Isaac, whose area has been hard hit by S&L failures, also is lobbying to get the federal government to surrender some of the properties to local governments for affordable-housing programs. ``Money for housing programs has been drying up,'' the Colorado Springs mayor said. ``I see this as a tremendous opportunity to do some good.'' The six-day meeting opens today with the first joint meeting of organization task forces on drug control and homelessness. At a meeting last week to plan the conference, several mayors said street tensions in their cities appeared to be on the rise heading into the summer months. ``This isn't a time for happy talk,'' said Flynn. ``A decade of neglect of America's cities has created an abominable mix that presents a dangerously tense situation for this summer and years to come.''
AP900504-0088 	X	Falling scenery, curtains that won't go up and revolving stages that refuse to turn have caused a series of mishaps in London theaters in the last 10 days, prompting a safety investigation. The latest incident occurred Thursday night at a gala opening at the Royalty Theater of ``A Clockwork Orange.'' The curtain refused to go up for the second half of the Royal Shakespeare Company production. The star-studded audience downed free drinks offered by the embarrassed management as stage staff struggled for 15 minutes before getting the curtain to go up. On Monday, the Stephen Sondheim musical ``Sunday in the Park with George'' at the Lyttelton Theater was halted in mid-performance when a wooden tree, part of the scenery, fell from a hook as it was being carried off the stage. It narrowly missed an actor. Performances at the Lyttelton were canceled the next day. ``It is an extremely complicated set. It has simply been bad luck, but we can take no chances,'' said a theater spokesman. It was the second mishap to hit the musical. On April 23, an iron bar fell, but nobody was injured. On April 24, a hydraulic jack at the Olivier Theater broke down, preventing the revolving stage from turning. The play ``The School for Scandal'' was canceled in mid-performance when stage staff failed to get it working again. The comedy was playing to a packed house. Tickets were refunded. The actors' union Equity said in a statement this week that a working party comprising representatives of the union, stage staff and theater managers had been set up to investigate safety on stage as a result of the incidents.
AP900417-0212 	X	General Electric Co., buoyed by new orders in its aircraft engine and power systems divisions, on Tuesday reported a 12 percent profit gain for the first quarter. GE reported earnings of $950 million in the three months ended March 31, up from $849 million in the first quarter of 1989. Earnings per share were up 13 percent, to $1.06 from 94 cents. Revenue rose 6 percent to $12.6 billion in the first quarter of this year from $11.9 billion a year earlier. ``Very strong earnings improvements were reported by GE Capital, Power Systems and Aircraft Engines,'' said GE chairman John F. Welch Jr. Other divisions with higher earnings included lighting, medical systems, transportation systems, and electrical distribution and controls. He said new orders for power generation were up 60 percent from the first quarter of 1989, while orders from the company's medical systems division were 25 percent ahead of last year. The company reported a total backlog of $35 billion in the aircraft engine division, following new orders from Lufthansa and from Aeroflot, the Soviet national airline. GE said operating profit from its major appliances division was even with last year, while profit and revenue from its broadcasting arm, NBC, were ``somewhat below'' the first-quarter figures in 1989. Operating profit from its materials division was down considerably, which the company attributed to slower demand for cars, appliances and housing. GE said growth in earnings per share was slightly higher than net earnings because of a $10 billion share repurchase program announced last year. Under the program, the company bought back 11.6 million shares for $728 million in the first quarter, bringing total shares acquired to 15.3 million, for a total $963 million, since the program began in November 1989.
AP880509-0083 	X	A U.S. cargo ship accidentally struck and sank a Chinese fishing boat in the East China Sea, leaving 17 fishermen missing, the official Xinhua News Agency said Monday. Xinhua said the U.S. ship, the President Monroe, left the scene immediately after the accident Friday afternoon and made no effort to rescue the fishermen. U.S. Embassy spokesman Mckinney Russell said the Chinese Foreign Ministry notified the embassy of the accident, but that he had no other information. ``It's still an alleged incident as far as we are concerned,'' Russell said. ``We haven't been able to confirm there was a collision. We don't know where the (U.S.) vessel would have come from or where it was bound.'' Lloyds Register of Ships says the President Monroe belongs to American President Lines of San Francisco. It is a 860-foot long container weighing 40,627 tons. Xinhua said the accident took place off the port of Lianyugang in coastal Jiangsu province. It said the Chinese boat carried 20 fishermen and was registered to the Jiangsu Fisheries Corp. The report said the Foreign Ministry ``reserves the right for further representation.'' Russell said he interpreted that to mean the Chinese might sue the American shipping company if an investigation supported their version of events. He said he did not expect any political repercussions.
AP880726-0067 	X	Iran-Contra prosecutor Lawrence Walsh says Oliver North is trying to turn his trial from a criminal to a political one and should not be allowed to use politics to win a six-month delay. Walsh urged U.S. District Judge Gerhard Gesell on Monday to reject North's motion for a delay until after the presidential election. ``Having failed in several attempts to avoid completely the trial of this case, while proclaiming his innocence in speeches, the defendant Oliver L. North is now grasping at the criminal defendant's maneuver of last resort _ delay,'' Walsh said. ``This trial in particular should not be held hostage to a media which the defendant himself has strenuously sought to inflame,'' Walsh said in a brief filed with U.S. District Judge Gerhard Gesell. Walsh also rebutted North's contention that his actions had been approved. ``The government knows of no presidential decision that North can point to as authorizing his activities,'' Walsh said, adding: ``The government also is not aware of any superior, except North's co-conspirators (Robert C.) McFarlane and (John M.) Poindexter, who knew enough about North's activities to have conveyed even informal or implicit approval.'' Had Walsh found Reagan responsible for authorizing North's activities, the prosecutor would have been unable to charge North in March with defrauding the United States because North would have been acting with the necessary presidential approval. The prosecutor included 15 newspaper clippings reporting North's recent speeches about his case and in support of Republican congressional candidates. He quoted North's own statement after his indictment last March: ``I have now been caught in a bitter dispute between the Congress and the president over the control of foreign policy. ... It is a shame that the new battleground for such a fight will be a courtroom.'' Delaying the trial would give court approval to ``North's transparent attempt to transform this trial from a criminal into a political one,'' Walsh argued. A retired Marine Corps lieutenant colonel and former White House aide, North is the first of four defendants scheduled to be tried on charges including a conspiracy to defraud the United States by illegally diverting profits from U.S.-Iran arms sales to the Nicaraguan Contra rebels. Last Wednesday, one of North's attorneys, Barry Simon, told the court that `no fair-minded person could argue that this trial should be started seven weeks prior to the presidential election. The intense publicity generated during the final seven weeks of a presidential campaign would deny (North) a fair trial.'' But Walsh said, ``To the extent that North's trial may become a political issue in the upcoming elections, North bears at least a substantial measure of responsibility, and therefore has little credibility in complaining.'' Walsh said North has made many pretrial speeches and statements ``in which he had claimed that the charges should be evaluated in a political context.'' Walsh said North's trial could begin Sept. 20 as planned with an impartial jury despite the presidential campaign and urged Gesell to reject North's motion for a six-month delay, which Walsh said was filed ``simply as a stalling tactic.'' Walsh said courts in the District of Columbia are well trained by their experience with Watergate and other political scandals to conduct trials in cases which receive a lot of publicity. He said the trial would draw media attention no matter when it occurred and that much of this publicity has been favorable to the defendants. Of the 16 counts against North, Walsh said those involving false statements and obstruction of justice, personal enrichment and tax fraud could easily be tried Sept. 20. To meet that date for the conspiracy, theft of government property and wire fraud charges, Walsh said Gesell would have to modify a July 6 order granting North access to additional classified documents. Walsh enclosed a letter from CIA general counsel Russell J. Bruemmer to support such a modification. Bruemmer said some of the documents already had been provided, others including excepts from the President's Daily Brief on intelligence matters, and summaries by the Central American Joint Intelligence Task Force could be ready in four weeks, but others are not readily available and would require several months to gather. Walsh noted that Gesell ordered the documents on the basis of a meeting with defense lawyers from which prosecutors were excluded. Walsh said no defense argument he could envision would make the documents relevant to the case. He indicated that most of them refer to other government covert actions abroad and said no other covert action had ever involved the transfer of funds from one operation to another. Walsh asked Gesell to require North to come up with more specific reasons for seeing items before they are ordered turned over to him. Gesell did not rule on the motion immediately.
AP880623-0098 	X	A Justice Department spokesman says a bicycle messenger wearing a T-shirt that proclaimed ``Meese is a Pig'' was not admitted to its headquarters because he was ``inappropriately attired.'' ``Just as we would not permit somebody to come strolling in here with a bathing suit, for example, I think it's reasonable to have some kind of standard,'' spokesman Patrick S. Korten said Wednesday. He said the messenger, Christopher Stalvey, ``was inappropriately attired.'' Stalvey, who said the incident occurred June 10, visited the American Civil Liberties Union this week to tell legal director Arthur B. Spitzer about the encounter. ``We are prepared to bring suit if they say this is their policy,'' Spitzer said. ``It seems like a perfectly clear case of discrimination based on the content of the T-shirt.'' Korten, spokesman for Attorney General Edwin Meese III, said ``this is an interim policy until a firm determination can be made on how such matters ought to be handled.'' Korten ``obviously doesn't understand what the First Amendment is all about,'' said Spitzer. ``If they had a rule that said no T-shirts, that might be an acceptable rule. But apparently they have a rule that says no T-shirts that insult Ed Meese. Presumably, this guy would have been allowed in if he was wearing a T-shirt that said `Reagan-Bush '84'.''
AP880815-0248 	X	EDITOR'S NOTE _ Back in 1964, a man running for the White House could still bring his campaign to the people without a vast apparatus of hired image-shapers, consultants, security forces _ anxious glances at the latest quickie polls to tell him what to say. Perhaps one of the last candidates to present himself largely unencumbered was Barry Goldwater of Arizona. An AP reporter who covered this and many another run for the White House recalls how it felt in simpler times.
AP880909-0185 	X	The death toll rose to 56 in the Aug. 28 air show disaster at a U.S. air base and a newspaper said Thursday that insurance coverage of the Italian stunt-flying team involved falls far short of estimated damage. An insurance official said, however, that organizers of such an event usually pay the largest portion of the damage. Two more West Germans died of severe burns from the accident at the U.S. Air Force Base in Ramstein and 28 people were reported in critical condition. Two Americans are among the dead. Marco Fraquelli, an official of the Milano Assicurazioni insurance company of Milan, Italy, said each of the three planes that crashed was insured for $1.4 million, for a total of $4.2 million. The Berliner Morgenpost quoted Fraquelli as saying his company expects damage claims from the crash of the three jets from the Frecce Tricolori team to reach about $120 million. ``In case of disasters like the one in Ramstein, usually the government and NATO agree on payment of damage to the victims and their relatives,'' Fraquelli told The Associated Press. Three Italian stunt-flying jets collided at low altitude at the air show and one hurtled into a crowd of spectators and exploded. Jurgen Dietzen, a spokesman for Rhineland-Palatinate State Interior Ministry said 160 people remained hospitalized. Dietzen said the last two deaths occurred between Wednesday and Thursday.
AP901130-0100 	X	A court has fined a hunter $180 for killing another hunter he thought was an elk, the Swedish national news agency TT reported Friday. ``I saw something in the woods. I thought it was an elk and Shot,'' the 70-year-old elk hunter told the court. The victim was a Bird hunter. The elk hunter was convicted of causing another person's death. The shooting occurred in a central Sweden forest in September. The court accepted the hunter's testimony that the shooting was accidental. Swedish courts generally impose light sentences in such cases.
AP901105-0200 	X	He recommended to the class a collection of Robinson poems for which he had written an introduction some years ago. ``I read this through last night to see if I agree with myself, which I don't always, and I must say I do, so it's safe.'' Later Dickey was reading from the critic Edmund Wilson, who wrote in passing that he thought Emily Dickinson was overrated. Dickey's eyes left the page, rolled upward, and he shook his head. ``No, no, Edmund. You're wrong about that, dead wrong,'' he said, then continued reading. ``Mr. Dickey has opinions all right,'' said a student, Alan Asnen. ``You have the feeling he knows what he's talking about. I think he knows ... everything. He certainly knows poetry, and loves it.'' Dickey at one moment appears hard and demanding and at the next soft enough to cry on. Lecturing from his place at the head of the table, he rarely glances at the notes spread before him. Instead, as he talks, his gaze flits from face to face, lighting on each randomly, like a pollenating bee. When he reads a poem aloud he yields completely to the lust of language and rhythm and imagery. The effect sifts through the room like perfume. He caresses each word, his soft voice adding its own poetic sauce. At the end, he holds the final lines in his mouth, tasting them, and raises his face to the class with a spreading glow of satisfaction. ``Cut,'' he says at last, ending the spell. ``Go to black, or whatever it is they say in Hollywood when it can't get any better.'' James Dickey, Georgia born, has been writer in residence at the University of South Carolina for 23 years now. But he is no campus decoration, seen only at book signings and sherry parties. Clearly, he loves the classroom. ``A lot of American writers feel that teaching is an imposition keeping them from their work,'' he says. ``I don't. Teaching forces you to get your own ideas straight. They vary from year to year, but when you get in front of a classroom you at least have to say what you think and how you feel.'' So Dickey teaches two courses, four classes twice a week, although the school has asked him to drop one, a workshop on modern American poetry, to give him more time to write. Lack of time, however, doesn't seem to have hampered him so far. He has eight projects in the works, including a sequel to his 1987 novel ``Alnilam'' which he considers ``20 times better'' than ``Deliverance.'' He's also working on a book of collected poems, a book of literary criticism and a fourth children's book. Just last month he brought out a book of poems titled ``The Eagle's Mile'' which he brought with him to class. ``There will be a signing at the bookstore Saturday,'' he said. Then he added in a conspirator's whisper, ``I'm going to take roll.'' Then he reminded the class of aspiring young poets yearning to be published of what the poet Conrad Aiken said about bringing out a new book of poetry. ``He said waiting for the reaction is like dropping a feather into the Grand Canyon and listening for the echo.'' James Dickey continued: ``For everybody in this class I wish only one thing, that you concentrate your efforts to one end. ``Not to publish. Not to be famous. Not to make money, because that just ain't going to happen no matter how good or famous you are. ``Concentrate all your energies toward writing something that will stand up, that will move people, that will stay with them, disturb them, amplify what used to be called their souls. ``Do that. Do that. There is hope for all of us.'' Class dismissed.
AP880512-0326 	X	A substantial number of workers at a General Electric Co. defense plant here will be laid off because of a drop in orders from the Pentagon, the company announced Thursday. Arthur Glenn, vice president of GE's Defense Systems Division, refused to say exactly how many workers would be laid off or when. However, GE officials informed the state it would lay off about 900 workers over the next 18 months because of a decrease in defense-related orders, according to a state economic affairs official. The first phase of the layoffs is scheduled for July, according to the official, who asked not to be identified. The unexpected announcement by the company came only three months after GE promised stable employment at its Pittsfield businesses this year. The company had laid off 1,000 workers last year when it closed its transformer plant. The ordnance division, which employs 4,700 people, makes guidance systems for Trident submarine-launched nuclear missiles, components of the Bradley fighting machine, which carries infantrymen, various high-speed guns and other military products. ``The market we serve we thought, up to a year ago, to be at least in a sustaining basis and somewhat of a growth basis,'' Glenn said at a news conference. He blamed the sudden turnaround on government cutbacks in ordnance contracts. ``As pressure gets tough on defense budgets, government customers have to make difficult decisions,'' Glenn said. He said a government contract the company recently lost to Northrup Industries had little to do with the layoffs. ``We had really planned our business based on not winning that contract because there was so much controvery over whether the Air Force wished to use our technology,'' Glenn said. ``Certainly if that contract had come, I would not have had to take as severe an action as we're going to have to take without it.'' Glenn also said a decrease in orders would mean a slowdown in Bradley fighting machine production, from 550 yearly to about 350. He said he told the company's 500 management employees Thursday morning about the impending layoffs. Neither managers nor union officials could be immediately reached for comment. GE now employs about 6,700 people in the ordnance and plastics plants in the city, the number it had employeed in 1983, before the company began expanding the ordnance systems division with 1,400 new employees by late 1986. Workers at the company were dealt a major blow in the fall of 1986 when GE announced it would close its transformer division in Pittsfield. GE announced in August 1987 it was reorganizing the ordnance division to eliminate the engineering and manufacturing department and replace it with a Division Effectiveness Operation to improve efficiency. ``The steps we are taking are usually taken by businesses in trouble and we are not in trouble,'' division Vice President Nicholas Boraski said at the time.
AP880804-0097 	X	Conservative Republicans said Thursday that George Bush is headed for defeat in November if he chooses a running mate from the GOP's ``establishment blue-bloods.'' Bush, the certain Republican presidential nominee, is weighing a number of choices for the ticket's No. 2 spot and has indicated he will wait until the GOP convention in New Orleans Aug. 15-18 to announce his decision. Sen. Gordon J. Humphrey, R-N.H., chairman of the Coalition for a Winning Ticket, declined to single out the group's ideal vice presidential candidate. But he did say conservatives were disappointed by the selection of Gov. Thomas Kean of New Jersey as the convention's keynote speaker. Kean, who has been mentioned as a possible Bush running mate, is from the party's moderate wing and, like Bush, has an Ivy League background. ``The problem of the Bush campaign is that it is attracted to establishment blue-bloods. What the Bush ticket needs is a transfusion of red corpuscles from the conservative wing of our party,'' Humphrey said at a news conference. Humphrey said a number of other possible Bush running mates from the party's moderate wing also were not acceptable to conservatives, including Richard Thornburgh, the former Pennsylvania governor who has been chosen to succeed Attorney General Edwin Meese III; Gov. Jim Thompson of Illinois; former Tennessee Gov. Lamar Alexander, and former Tennessee Sen. and White House chief of staff Howard H. Baker Jr. ``If George Bush selects an establishment Republican as his running mate, we believe we are headed for a disaster in November,'' Humphrey said. He described Sen. Dan Quayle of Indiana, Rep. Jack Kemp of New York and Gov. John Sununu of New Hampshire as acceptable to conservatives. He was equivocal on other possible candidates, including Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole, Dole's wife Elizabeth Hanford Dole, Sen. Nancy Kassebaum of Kansas and Sen. Alan Simpson of Wyoming. He said, however, that conservatives would probably not be enthusiastic about them.
AP880328-0053 	X	Gunmen seriously wounded the mayor of a Manila suburb and killed seven of his bodyguards today in the bloodiest attack in the capital blamed on communist rebels. Gunmen also shot dead a businessman. Police said Mayor Prospero Oreta of suburban Malabon suffered three gunshot wounds in the mouth, chest and arm but was out of danger after surgery. Seven of his bodyguards died in the attack and another was in serious condition. The ambush occurred as military units in various parts of the country were on full alert in anticipation of stepped up rebel attacks marking Tuesday's 19th founding anniversary of the now 24,000-member communist New People's Army. Seven hours after the ambush, three men in a car shot a businessman while he was driving in suburban Quezon City, just north of Manila, police said. The victim, who died at a hospital, was identified as Francisco Castro. Police said they had no idea who his attackers were or what their motive was. But the victim's brother, Jose Castro, vice president of the Manila chapter of the leftist People's Party, told reporters he believed he was the real target. Radio and newspaper reports said police Manila had received a call from the Alex Boncayao Brigade, the communist guerrilla unit operating in the Manila area, claiming responsibility for the ambush on Oreta. Police declined to confirm the reports. Armed forces spokesman Col. Oscar Florendo confirmed such a call had been received, but added the army could not yet say if the guerrilla unit was behind the attack. The Alex Boncayao Brigade has been blamed for the killings of more than 150 policemen and soldiers in daylight ambushes on Manila's streets since last year. Before today, the attacks have killed one or two people. The rebels had announced they would soon kill officials as well as police and soldiers. President Corazon Aquino said she was ``shocked and saddened by these acts of violence.'' ``I have always asked our people to resort to the ways of peace,'' she said in a statement. ``My hope is that as democracy in our country gains a strong foothold, violence and terror will gradually rescind.'' Investigators said Oreta and his party were riding in a van and a car to a flag-raising ceremony at the Malabon town hall when six men waiting at an intersection opened fire with automatic weapons. Cpl. Mario Odulio said the killers were armed with AK-47 and M-16 automatic assault rifles as well as 9-mm and .45-caliber pistols. Police recovered more than 40 spent shells at the scene, Odulio said. He said the killers escaped aboard a van and a jeep. Police said they believed the killers belonged to the Sparrow Unit, an assassination squad of the New People's Army, but were also looking into the possibility local politics was involved. Malabon, a fishing community in Manila's northern suburbs, was among the places where last January's local elections were hotly contested. Oreta is a brother-in-law of Rep. Tessie Oreta, younger sister of Mrs. Aquino's assassinated husband, former Sen. Benigno S. Aquino Jr.
AP880809-0153 	X	Gangs of Roman Catholics set street bonfires and threw rocks, bottles and firebombs at security patrols early Tuesday after two Catholics were killed, apparently by Protestant extremists. The sporadic rioting in Catholic areas that began Monday night also marked the 17th anniversary of Britain's abandoned policy of detaining suspected guerrillas without trial. Police believe the two Catholics slain Monday were killed in reprisal for attacks last week by guerrillas of the predominantly Catholic Irish Republican Army in Northern Ireland, England and West Germany that killed six people and wounded 37. A spokesman at Belfast's police headquarters said no violence was reported during the day Tuesday. Police said security forces came under 83 separate attacks during the overnight fighting, but the spokesman said fewer than 500 people probably were involved in the clashes that occurred throughout the British province. Officials reported eight policemen were hurt, none seriously, and four of 12 civilians injured were hospitalized. The IRA and its supporters continue to commemorate the introduction of the internment law on Aug. 9, 1971, even though it was abandoned amid worldwide criticism in 1975. Officials said police and soldiers were attacked with bombs, rocks, bottles and bricks and the patrols responded by firing plastic bullets. Some shots were fired at police, the officials said, but they did not report any gunshot casualties and said at one point security forces fired live ammunition into the air to disperse rioters. Eleven people, including two teen-age girls, were freed on bail by courts after being charged with riotous behavior. An 18-year-old man from Catholic west Belfast was charged with throwing a gasoline bomb and assaulting police and remained in jail. Some bonfires flamed out of control and damaged buildings, including a Baptist church, before the night's violence subsided with demonstrators making their traditional protest of banging garbage can lids. The two men killed Monday were Seamus Morris, 17, shot to death on a Belfast street, and Peter Dolan, 25, a beer-truck deliveryman slain when he tried to block the gunmen's getaway. Their deaths raised the known death toll to 2,675 from the sectarian violence that began in 1969. Stanley Whittington, president of the Methodist church in Ireland, called for the determined pursuit of ``mindless murderers'' who cross the border to take refuge in the Irish Republic. He spoke at the funeral of William Hassard, 60, one of two construction men shot to death last Thursday by IRA terrorists because they were working at a police station at the border town of Belleek. The IRA seeks to unite Northern Ireland, where Protestants outnumber Catholics 3-2, with the predominantly Catholic Irish Republic.
AP881018-0227 	X	AP900519-0001 	X	U.S. Customs agents on Friday unveiled a fortified tunnel under the U.S.-Mexican border and said it had been used to smuggle at least a ton of cocaine into this country. ``It was like something out of a James Bond movie,'' Customs spokeswoman Judy Turner said. The tunnel dubbed ``Cocaine Alley'' was about the length of a football field and 30 feet underground, authorities said. They said the smuggling operation included a warehouse and elaborate entryways on both sides of the border. U.S. authorities and Mexican Judicial Police raided the tunnel late Thursday, using jackhammers and torches to break in, said Thomas McDermott, head of the U.S. Customs Service in Arizona. Law enforcement officers found about 25 to 30 pounds of marijuana, but made no arrests. McDermott told reporters that U.S. officials working with Mexican Judicial Police arrested two men earlier this month in connection with the smuggling ring. McDermott said authorities also confiscated the Agua Prieta, Mexico, house of businessman Rafael Francisco Camarena and two of Camarena's businesses _ Douglas Building Supply Co. and Douglas Redi-Mix Concrete. One entrance of the tunnel is in the house, and the other end was in a warehouse on the U.S. side of the border. Camarena was not in custody. McDermott declined to say whether there was a warrant for his arrest. In Mexico City, the Attorney General's Office said two people were arrested in the house. The Attorney General's communique was unclear if those were the same people mentioned as arrested by U.S. officials. Their names were withheld. The northern end of the tunnel was in a Douglas Building warehouse built eight months ago about 200 feet north of the fence that divides the two cities. It was just one block from the unmarked Customs enforcement building and four blocks from the international port of entry. McDermott said that in Camarena's house, excavation was hidden in the family room beneath an 8-by-12-foot concrete slab holding a pool table. He said that when an operator turned a small mechanism shaped like a garden faucet, a hydraulic lift boosted the slab, with pool table, about 5 feet into the air. ``It was a tremendously sophisticated operation,'' McDermott said. ``This the most unique smuggling operation I have ever come across.'' The tunnel was 5 feet high, 4 feet wide, well lighted, and lined with supports to prevent cave-ins, authorities said. At various points were compartments where up to 5 tons of drugs could be stashed. Smugglers used a cart to load cocaine and ferry it through the tunnel, which was up to 40 feet below the surface on the Mexican side and 30 feet on the U.S. side, officials said. On a tour of the warehouse, reporters were shown the northern entrance: a grate which, when lifted, revealed a 7-foot drop to a gangway about the size of a small bedroom. That led to a 30-foot-deep well down to the tunnel proper. Over the well was a pulley and hoist system apparently used to raise drug packages. The entrance and well were lined with concrete block. ``It was just an exceptionally, professionally engineered tunnel,'' Ms. Turner said. ``It was something that you and I in the ordinary world would only find in the movies.'' The smugglers were probably also using the tunnel to transport profits back to Mexico, said Drug Enforcement Administration agent Gerard Murphy. McDermott said it probably took several months and $1.5 million to $2 million to build the tunnel. The house and the warehouse, which provided cover for moving large amounts of dirt, were built eight months ago. McDermott said a geological survey team found the tunnel through tests which detected ``an anomaly, something below the ground that shouldn't be there.'' Further tests helped pinpoint the tunnel. Ms. Turner said Customs agents who suspected the tunnel's existence used aerial surveillance to track the shipment of 2,258 pounds of cocaine with an estimated street value of $102 million from Douglas to a spot outside Phoenix on May 11. They confiscated the haul and arrested Caesar Thomas Howard, 44, of Mesa and Joseph Edward Osborn, 31, of Tempe. The cocaine was transported from the warehouse in a false-bottomed, flatbed truck and had been destined for Southern California, McDermott said. He said authorities knew of no other tunnels, but said they would be looking. ``This investigation is far from being over,'' McDermott said.
AP900419-0202 	X	Grain and soybean futures prices edged lower in early trading today on the Chicago Board of Trade amid fears that Moscow's reprisals against Lithuania could jeopardize U.S. grain sales to the Soviet Union. Reports that the Soviet Union had cut off oil shipments to the breakaway republic triggered speculation that the United States will back away from granting the Soviets most favored nation trade status. The designation would allow for freer trade between the superpowers. Forecasts for increasingly wet, warm weather in the Midwestern croplands prompted further selling this morning. Rain was expected in the region today and Friday, and the National Weather Service has predicted above-normal temperatures for the Midwest during the latter half of next week. Higher prices for soybean meal in Europe helped to limit losses in the soybean market. In early trading, wheat futures were } cent to 1{ cents lower with the contract for delivery in May at $3.63} a bushel; corn was { cent to 1 cent lower with May at $2.72} a bushel; oats were { cent to 1 cent lower with May at $1.56{ a bushel; soybeans were { cent lower to \ cent higher with May at $5.94\ a bushel. Cattle futures were mixed in early trading on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange while pork futures advanced, led by a surge in pork-belly prices amid bullish chart signals. Live cattle futures were .05 cent lower to .20 cent higher with April at 79.82 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .10 cent lower to .05 cent higher with April at 84 cents a pound; live hogs were unchanged to .35 cent higher with April at 56.90 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .68 cent to 1.58 cent higher with May at 60.90 cents a pound. Cattle futures were mixed on Wednesday while pork futures were mostly higher.
AP900321-0265 	X	The Food and Drug Administration has barred government agencies from buying certain drugs from Abbott Laboratories, charging the company failed to correct violations of quality standards at a suburban Chicago plant. The FDA also said it would not approve any new drug applications by the North Chicago-based pharmaceutical giant that involve certain products made in the plant. In a letter to Abbott dated March 14 but not released until Tuesday, the FDA said some of the company's products are adulterated because of improper manufacturing practices. The agency's district director in Chicago, Raymond Mlecko, said FDA investigators did not find unsterile products at the plant, but did see violations of federal manufacturing requirements. The letter warned that the FDA was prepared to take more severe measures, including seizing products and shutting down manufacturing operations, if Abbott did not quickly correct the alleged problems. Donald Wright, Abbott's corporate vice president of quality assurance, said the FDA action resulted from a misunderstanding about the extent to which the firm has worked to correct the problems. Wright said the problems should be remedied soon and would have no material effect on Abbott. A health industry analyst, Michael Harshbarger of Chicago Corp., said the FDA letter had ominous implications. ``This is not a slap on the wrist,'' he said. An FDA report in November cited the Abbott plant for failure to maintain proper sterilty, failure to follow up on quality problems and in at least one case, making improper changes in records designed to show that a drug was made in an approved manner. The drugs involved are an antibiotic called erythrocin lactobionate and a batch of an anti-inflammatory steroid sold under the brand name A-MethaPred that is given to patients in hospitals to treat severe arthritis and lupus _ a chronic inflammation of the tissue around the joints. Mlecko said there was no evidence that the problems pose any immediate public health risk.
AP900710-0071 	X	Militant Cuban exile Orlando Bosch today rejected a government offer to trade prison for a restrictive house-arrest program that would return him to his family after the past 14 years in jails. Bosch said the offer would require him to tell the FBI of any contacts with Cuban exile groups that advocate violence, said his daughter, Myriam. ``He's willing to agree to all of the conditions except that one,'' Ms. Bosch said. ``He's not going be an informant. The FBI can do their own work.'' Ms. Bosch said her father informed his attorneys of his decision this morning, and they were to notify immigration officials. A source with the Justice Department said the government will not negotiate the offer. ``Bosch won't accept the conditions, and he won't be released unless he does,'' the source said, speaking on condition of anonymity. The proposal presented to Bosch by immigration officials Monday night was a departure for the Justice Department, which has maintained for years that the anti-Castro activist would continue his terrorist ways if released. ``He's just not prepared to send a message out that he's an informant,'' said attorney Henry Adorno. ``He believes that lists are kept by people like Joe McCarthy and Fidel Castro.'' On Monday, Bosch's wife, Adriana, had criticized the conditions for his release, but appeared to encourage him to accept the deal, calling the conditions ``better than jail.'' The 63-year-old former pediatrician suffers from ulcers and declining health after years in Venezuelan and U.S. jails. The conditions would have required Bosch to wear an electronic monitoring device, remain at home for 21 hours a day, keep a log of visitors and allow his telephone to be monitored, said Richard Smith, director of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service in Miami. Smith said Bosch also would be subject to unannounced searches and lie detector tests, and if instructed, must present himself for deportation within 72 hours. ``They're just messing with his head,'' Myriam Bosch said. ``Knowing how they work, I think they probably did this knowing my father would not accept it.'' Justice Department spokesman Dan Eramian in Washington said the government decided to offer Bosch parole for humanitarian reasons, but will continue the two-year effort to deport him. Thus far, 31 nations have refused to accept him. The offer appeared to be an attempt to resolve what has become a cause celebre for Miami's staunchly anti-Castro Cuban exile community, which has held rallies and demonstrations on his behalf. Bosch has been held since 1988, when he was arrested for parole violations and for reentering the country illegally. According to CIA documents, he ran bombing runs on Cuba in the early 1960s. In 1968, he was convicted in a bazooka attack on a Polish freighter at the Port of Miami and sentenced to 10 years in prison. He was paroled in 1972 and fled the country in 1974 after he was subpoenaed to testify in an inquiry into the killing of a Miami exile leader. Accused of masterminding the 1976 bombing of a Cuban jetliner that killed 73 people, Bosch spent 11 years in Venezuelan jails. He denied involvement in the bombing and was acquitted in three separate trials. The parole conditions would require Bosch to wear an electronic monitoring device, remain at home for 21 hours a day, keep a log of visitors and allow his telephone to be monitored, said Richard Smith, director of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service in Miami.
AP881102-0125 	X	The Reagan administration told the Supreme Court today that mandatory drug tests for some railroad workers and U.S. Customs Service employees are vital to public safety and confidence in government. Attorney General Dick Thornburgh, in an unusual move, appeared himself to plead for testing of rail workers after train accidents. ``This is a case about railway safety,'' he said. It is about ``the hazards created by use of drugs and alcohol by those in charge of trains.'' Solicitor General Charles Fried, the administration's top courtroom lawyer, defended the Customs Service drug testing program. ``There is rather special, urgent and symbolic significance'' in assuring the public that the agency responsible for preventing drug smuggling has a drug-free work force, Fried said. ``The Customs Service is indeed entitled to take a fine filter to show to itself, its workers and the public that (workers) are not involved in drug use,'' he said. The drug tests were attacked as a ``humiliating invasion of privacy'' by Lois Williams, representing the Customs Service workers. ``Innocent persons have a great deal of reason to be apprehensive,'' she said. Lawrence Mann, an attorney for the railway workers, said the drug tests are unconstitutional because they are incapable of proving on-the-job impairment. ``Neither the alcohol nor the drug test can demonstrate impairment,'' he said. The tests can show the presence of a residue from a drug that may have been taken by ``someone 60 days ago in the privacy of home.'' The two cases will provide a crucial test for mandatory drug testing in the American workplace. Thornburgh's appearance underscored the importance of today's two-hour argument session. Benjamin Civiletti was the last attorney general to argue a case before the justices when he appeared in 1980 to present the Carter administration's side in a case involving the deportation of an alleged Nazi. Thornburgh last argued a case before the high court in 1977 when he headed the Justice Department's criminal division. In today's cases, the justices agreed to decide whether the nation's railroads may require all employees involved in accidents to take drug tests; and whether the Customs Service may impose the tests for those seeking drug-enforcement jobs. Both cases involve governmental authority to test workers for the presence of drugs. The eventual rulings by the court, expected sometime in 1989, will not deal with drug tests for private employees. But the decisions could have an important psychological impact on whether businesses will demand that their workers undergo such tests. Tests conducted by federal, state or local governments will be affected directly by the court's action. In the railroad case, the Federal Railroad Administration issued regulations in 1985 aimed at alleviating ``a significant safety problem'' caused by alcohol and drug use among employees. The agency, an arm of the U.S. Department of Transportation, generally requires railroads to take blood and urine specimens after accidents, incidents and rules violations. The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled in February that the tests are unreasonable searches banned by the Constitution's Fourth Amendment. ``Accidents, incidents or rule violations, by themselves, do not create reasonable grounds for suspecting that tests will demonstrate alcohol or drug impairment in any one railroad employee, much less an entire train crew,'' the appeals court said. Government lawyers have said that from 1972 through 1983, railroad accidents linked to drug or alcohol abuse killed 42 people, injured 61 and caused some $19 million in property damage. In the Customs Service case, the government contends the need to fight drug smuggling justifies mandatory tests for those applying for or holding drug-enforcement jobs. Workers in such sensitive jobs must provide urine samples in restroom stalls as a person overseeing the procedure waits outside the stall. Testing was authorized under an executive order President Reagan signed in 1986. The Reagan administration has said the tests are needed to prevent agents who use drugs from being bribed or blackmailed. Any sacrifice of personal privacy is outweighed by the need to stop drug smuggling, the administration said. The National Treasury Employees Union, in challenging the tests, said they subject workers to a humiliating invasion of privacy. The 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the tests for Customs Service workers in such sensitive jobs.
AP901026-0196 	X	A midshipman was expelled from the Naval Academy for having sex on campus with a woman who had accused him of rape. The junior midshipman, who was not identified by the academy, was initially accused of raping the woman, but academy spokesman Noel Milan said investigators never found enough evidence to support the allegation. ``Very early on, it was determined that there was not enough evidence to proceed with the (rape) case,'' Milan said. The student told authorities he met the woman at a downtown bar, brought her back to the academy and had sex with her early May 13, a Navy official said. The midshipman was found guilty of violating a rule that bars midshipmen from having sex on academy grounds and expelled earlier this month, Milan said. Officials are considering whether the midshipman may also have to reimburse the academy for his education. ``That decision is yet to be made,'' Milan said. The expelled student may be required to serve time in the Navy or reimburse the Navy for the cost of his education. The expulsion is the latest of several reports of mistreatment involving the 4,500-student academy. Annapolis police are investigating a report that a midshipman broke into a woman's home Sept. 8 and chased her around her house until she locked herself in a bedroom. A female midshipman resigned last spring after reporting she was handcuffed to a urinal. Other women and minorities later came forward with stories of mistreatment at the academy by male officers and students.
AP880416-0043 	X	Pie throws, singing mailmen and free antacid tablets greeted frenzied procrastinators rushing to meet the midnight deadline for filing their federal income tax returns. Post offices across the country were open until midnight Friday to place the all-important April 15 postmark on tax returns, or on envelopes containing Form 4868 requesting an automatic four-month extension of the deadline. Paul Monroe, regional manager for H&R Block in Boston, said he sees the same people every year. ``They look forward to the excitement of April 15th. The adrenalin starts flowing,'' Monroe said. ``It's like a non-contact sport.'' In New York City, thousands of people crowded the main post office. Many spread their receipts on benches, tables or the marble floor, nervously glancing at the clock until they finished, then heaving a sigh of relief, their faces glowing. Free antacid samples were distributed outside, and a toy office opened an ``IRS Stress Relief Clinic'' which invited frustrated taxpayers to come in and yell at a dummy. ``This is insane,'' John Zoilo said as he slaved over his returns. ``The last time I felt this harassed was when I got married, and that's why I'm now divorced. ``But I must admit, there's no better place to do this if you're going to be late than the Eighth Avenue post office,'' he said. ``You're among thousands of procrastinators.'' New York's Internal Revenue Service center expected to be deluged with about 2 million tax returns today, said IRA spokesman Neil O'Keefe. Another half-million people were expected to file for extensions. Nationwide, the post office expected to handle 30 million tax returns in the final days before the deadline, said Postal Service consumer advocate Ann Robinson in Washington. Returns not postmarked by midnight could be subject to a late filing penalty, possibly up to 25 percent of the taxes owed. Last-minute tax filers backed up traffic for several blocks near Chicago's Main Post Office Friday night, but other taxpayers got a chance to vent their anger at the IRS by throwing pies at a mock IRS agent. For $1 or $2 a pie, passers-by tossed whipped-cream concoctions in the face of Scott Goodman, part owner of the Superior Street Cafe, who posed as IRS agent ``Shirdolph Yurback'' to raise money for charity. ``You know what I'm going to do with your taxes?'' he asked one passer-by. ``I'm going to fund a study of South American insects.'' The woman stopped, plopped down $2 for a large pie and slammed it at point-blank range into the mock agent's face. ``That felt great,'' the unidentified woman said. At a post office in Springfield, Mass., postal worker Bill Mannila entertained tardy taxpayers by lip-syncing ``Return to Sender,'' while dressed in a costume that was half Elvis Presley, half regulation grays. A six-piece band of postal workers also was on hand, joined by a postmaster who belted out ``Pennies From Heaven'' and ``King of the Road.'' ``It's like a zoo, but it's fun,'' said Springfield Technical Community College Professor Bill Herd, who along with colleagues and students helped taxpayers fill out more than 100 forms. ``People are not so mad about paying their taxes. They come in here with a frown and they leave with a smile.''
AP880420-0278 	X	Grumman Corp.'s planned expansion here is evidence that oil-dependent Houston is trying to get more involved in aircraft and aerospace industries, according to a local development official. Grumman officials said Tuesday the company's Southwest Regional Development and Production Center will be built on a 66-acre parcel of land, and will include an office building and several other structures. The project will mean 1,000 new jobs in the next year and an initial investment of $10 million over two years. ``Grumman feels betting a large part of our company future on Houston is a good bet,'' J.J. Bussolini, Grumman vice president for business operations, said at a news conference. Lee Hogan, president of the Houston Economic Development Council, said Tuesday's announcement illustrated Houston's efforts to get involved in aircraft and aerospace industries. ``We are now as interested in that as the price of oil,'' he said. Bussolini said Grumman was convinced to select Houston with incentives to locate at Ellington Field, a strong work ethic shown by employees at its existing Houston operations, an excellent pool of potential employees and cost savings for construction and operations of new facilities compared with other parts of the country. Grumman, an aircraft and aerospace company with annual sales of more than $3.5 billion, now employs about 500 people in Houston and 33,000 people worldwide. Grumman said work in Houston will include civil space programs, manufacturing and development on Air Force missile programs and engineering support for Grumman programs throughout the country. None of the new Houston jobs would be the result of transfers from other Grumman facilities, Bussolini said. Company officials said Houston's job count could grow to 2,000 or more, depending on the outcome of several NASA and Defense Department programs. The Bethpage, N.Y.-based company selected Houston from among other potential sites in Pennsylvania, North and South Carolina, Georgia and Alabama. The new center will be built on land Grumman leased last year from the city at Ellington Field, a former Air Force base now owned by the city. The land originally was earmarked for Grumman's civil space unit for NASA space station work, but NASA selected rival bidder McDonnell Douglas Corp. for the job. The new project culminates efforts by officials of the Houston Economic Development Council. ``The loss of the space station contract was a serious setback to our corporate plan,'' Bussolini said, but added that Houston officials kept encouraging the company to add to its presence in the city.
AP901009-0222 	X	An unpleasant diagnostic test known as broncoscopy grew so popular for a time among doctors at North Monroe Hospital that some of them made up a ditty about it. ``He bronchs them once, he bronchs them twice, he bronchs them once again,'' the doctors crooned. Dr. Henry Jones mentioned the popularity of this procedure and the song when he gave a deposition in a lawsuit against the hospital and its owners, Hospital Corporation of America. Other doctors also worried about the apparent zeal with which this and other tests and procedures were done at the hospital. Dr. George Ellis, in another sworn deposition, said some doctors who had received hospital favors overused bronchoscopy, a potentially risky procedure in which a tube is threaded into the lungs to look for disease. ``I think they performed bronchoscopy when it was unnecessary, and I think they did it too often on patients,'' said the radiologist. He complained to hospital staff and said he soon saw his own referrals disappear. Dr. David Raines told of one of his patients who went to the North Monroe emergency room with chest pains. The man was admitted and referred to a cardiologist. The cardiologist sent him to a pulmonary specialist, then an ear, nose and throat doctor, then a rheumetologist. Each specialist performed a series of hospital tests. ``He was aggressively investigated, which was obviously a financial thing,'' said Raines. Hospital officials declined comment, citing pending litigation.
AP901020-0110 	X	Here at a glance are the developments in the Persian Gulf crisis for the of October 14 to October 21:
AP900508-0157 	X	The Soviet Union has been given another go-ahead to buy more grain from the United States, the Agriculture Department said Tuesday. Undersecretary Richard T. Crowder said Moscow now has permission to buy up to 22 million metric tons of U.S. grain without further consultations, an increase of two million tons. A long-term grain agreement between the two countries specified initially that Moscow could buy up to 12 million tons of grain a year without further U.S. approval. That limit was raised to 16 million tons last October and to 20 million tons in December. The new limit of 22 million tons applies to the 12-month period that began Oct. 1. The agreement itself runs through Dec. 31. Officials said the increase resulted from talks with the Soviets in recent days and takes into consideration recent large purchases of corn by Moscow. In all, since Oct. 1, the Soviet Union has bought about 18.9 million tons of corn and wheat for delivery in 1989 and 1990. Those orders include more than 15.6 million tons of corn and 3.3 million tons of wheat. Purchases also include 342,300 tons of soybeans, 1.2 million tons of soybean meal and 7,300 tons of barley. In 1988-89, sales were a record of more than 21.7 million tons, including more than 16.3 million tons of corn and nearly 5.4 million tons of wheat. A metric ton is about 2,205 pounds and is equal to 39.4 bushels of corn or 36.7 bushels of wheat or soybeans.
AP881210-0036 	X	Residents shut themselves in after dark, drew curtains and answered callers warily as police hunted for a gunman believed responsible for four shootings in as many nights. The first victim was killed outside his auto customizing shop on Monday. Three men were wounded by shots fired into their homes on each of the next three nights. Police on Friday had patrols closely watching neighborhoods in this township of 23,000 people on Long Island. ``We can only assume that the killer has gotten scared because of the extra patrols, or else he's taken the night off. We just don't know,'' Detective Sgt. William Armstrong of the Southampton police said late Friday. The shootings have enough in common to point to one sniper, but police so far say they haven't found a common thread that would point to motive. All the shootings have occurred after dark, most around dinner time, within a two-mile radius in the towns of Southampton and Riverhead. The two towns are about 75 miles east of New York City and near the exclusive beach communities favored by the city's wealthy. The victims, all blue-collar men in their 30s, were shot with either a small-caliber rifle or a lightweight shotgun. Friends and relatives described them all as hard-working family men and were at a loss to suggest a motive. ``It's scary,'' said Barbara Bouchard, who lives next door to one of the victims. ``This is stuff you hear about in New York City. Around here, the most serious thing is they catch people shoplifting.'' An anonymous caller believed to have been the gunman contacted Riverhead police after the first shooting Monday and said, ``death to drug dealers and crooked cops,'' according to a source involved in the investigation who spoke on condition of anonymity. A similar call came after the second shooting on Tuesday, he said. But police said none of the victims was known to have dealt drugs and they apparently did not know one another. ``There is a definite link with the four,'' said the source. ``We think there is a reason for these shootings, a perverted type of thing.'' Southhampton police Chief Conrad Teller said the victims appeared to have been specific targets and not chosen at random. But, he said, ``we have nothing concrete to connect them.''
AP880812-0116 	X	The federal annex building on Spring Street now officially is the Martin Luther King Jr. federal building. President Reagan signed a law renaming the building Thursday. It makes the annex the first federal building in the nation to bear King's name. ``I think it's appropriate that the honor comes to Atlanta because this is the birthplace of Dr. King,'' said Rep. John Lewis, who introduced the bill in December. The federal government began a $10 million renovation project three years ago at the 1930s building. Agencies that have moved in since include the Food and Nutrition Service, the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Air Force Engineering Office.
AP901205-0142 	X	Rep. Edolphus ``Ed'' Towns, a liberal Democrat from Brooklyn, N.Y., was elected chairman Wednesday of the Congressional Black Caucus for the 102nd Congress. ``It's official. You can give me your condolences,'' Towns joked after the vote. He will succeed Rep. Ronald V. Dellums, D-Calif. Towns, elected to a fifth term last month, said the caucus will meet early in the new Congress to discuss its goals. ``The civil rights bill will be something we will push very hard very early in the Congress,'' he said in an interview. The bill was defeated this year when the Senate failed, by one vote, to override President Bush's veto. Towns noted that the caucus will have 26 members next year, the most since it was founded in 1970. In addition, it will have its first Republican U.S. representative ever: freshman Gary Franks, R-Conn. ``We look forward to working with him,'' Towns said. ``It might take us a little longer to get things done, but that's good.'' Towns, 56, was elected to Congress in 1982 from a diverse district that includes the impoverished Bedford-Stuyvesant section as well as the wealthier Brooklyn Heights neighborhood. In Congress, Towns has established himself as a solid liberal, in touch with his constituents but above the political infighting of his district.
AP900112-0255 	X	Stock prices took their sharpest drop in three months today, battered by revived inflation worries and fears of higher worldwide interest rates. Shortly before the close, the Dow Jones average of 30 industrials was down 76.37 points at 2,684.30.
AP900115-0077 	X	The new government today promised to consult all opposition parties on the timing of elections this year but said it would make the final decision on the balloting. Trials were scheduled to begin today for members of the Nicolae Ceasescu's hated Securitate secret police in Timisoara, police said. Protests in the western city ignited a popular revolution last month that toppled the Communist dictator. Other trials for Ceausescu colleagues, including one of his sons, will begin this week on charges of aiding genocide and bringing on economic ruin, state television reported. Ceausescu and his wife, Elena, were found guilty of such charges and executed Dec. 25. Dragos Munteanu, a spokesman for the governing National Salvation Front, said no decision has yet been made to delay the scheduled April parliamentary vote, despite opposition parties' demands for more time to organize their compaigns. He said the government would consult the opposition parties and delay the elections ``if the political forces are for it.'' But he added that he favors holding the vote as soon as possible. Munteanu said the hasty decision to outlaw the Communist Party Friday night, a move that the provisional government overturned Saturday in favor of submitting the issue to national referendum, showed the need for quick elections. The questions of banning the party and capital punishment will be submitted to a national referendum Jan. 28. Calling the party ban a mistake made of inexperience, Munteanu said, ``This is one of the reasons to have the elections as soon as possible, to have a legal government, a parliament.'' Romanians still have to learn the principles of democracy, he said. ``When I speak about learning democracy, even the government has to learn it,'' he said. ``We don't have real statesmen and politicians. They have to learn it.'' In its report Sunday, state television showed Valentin Ceausescu, a son of the deposed dictator; former Communist Party Secretary Emil Bobu; former Interior Minister Tudor Postelnicu; Marin Neagoe, who directed personal security for Ceausescu; and Dimitru Popescu, former director of the Sociopolitical Academy. The five are being investigated for abetting genocide and sabotaging the economy, which was squeezed dry by Ceausescu's payoff of Romania's foreign debt of more than $10 billion between 1982 and 1989, Romanian television said. Interim Foreign Minister Sergiu Celac told reporters that Romania's economy is in ``almost complete ruin'' and that the country needs massive food imports to feed its 23 million people. The genocide allegation refers to the thousands killed during December's popular uprising _ during which Securitate units fought army troops and civilian revolutionaries _ as well as victims of political repression during Ceausescu's 24-year reign. The exact charges to be levied at the trial have not been disclosed. Valentin, Ceausescu's eldest son, was a member of the Communist Party's policy-setting Central Committee. Bobu was Ceausescu's closest associate in running Romania after the dictator's wife, Elena. Ceausescu's youngest son, Nicu, and his daughter Zoya were arrested soon after he was overthrown. But they were not shown on television over the weekend. There was no indication exactly when or where the trials would take place, but interim President Ion Iliescu told a mass rally Friday that the trials would be public and televised.
AP900313-0184 	X	``Are you going to die?'' asks Charlie Brown when Janice, his little friend in the hospital bed, says she has leukemia. ``Good grief, Charlie Brown!'' cries Linus. ``What kind of question is that?'' A blunt one, asked in a different kind of ``Peanuts'' special that CBS is showing Friday night. Rest assured, though, that the ending is upbeat, in keeping with medical fact and the nature of Charles M. Schulz. Schulz, who has drawn the wise and whimsical characters of his ``Peanuts'' cartoon strip since 1950 and did his first TV special in 1965, hadn't thought of making his next one about a child who develops leukemia. What became Friday's ``Why, Charlie Brown, Why?'' began, he says, with an idea from Sylvia Cook, a nurse in California who works with young cancer patients at Stanford Children's Hospital. She proposed a five-minute film for them in which cancer and its treatment were explained by the ``Peanuts'' gang. He recalls that he pointed out a few problems, including that animation is expensive. That didn't stop Cook, Schulz says. ``Gradually, her idea changed, and she finally decided that it'd be more important if we could do a film that would show the people around the person who was ill just what is going on,'' he says. Wth the aid of the American Cancer Society, that's ultimately what happened. It helped that Schulz came to believe the film would make a good ``Peanuts'' special for TV and shouldn't be limited to hospital showings. The gentle lessons of Friday's show include the early symptoms of leukemia and what can be expected in treatment of the disease. A key part of the program _ the survival rate of children stricken with leukemia _ is only obliquely noted, mainly because a mass of statistics would be as out of place in a ``Peanuts'' special as a visit from The Simpsons. Little Janice, in chemotherapy treatment that she notes will cause her temporary hair loss, quotes her doctors as saying she should get well. The survival rate for children is high, according to ACS spokesman David Lehmann. He says the society estimates 2,500 children will be stricken with leukemia this year, 1,900 of them with its acute form. However, thanks to advances in treatment, 71 percent are expected to survive, he says. Schulz, who worked with the society in preparing Friday's special, downplays his role in it. ``I didn't go into making this thing because I wanted to teach the world all about this,'' he says. ``This was the idea of the cancer people. It was their project. My only job was to make it palatable, to give it some kind of story and try to tell the things they wanted told, yet make it so that people wouldn't turn it off.'' Schulz, 67, who lives in Santa Rosa, Calif., about an hour's drive north of San Francisco, estimates Friday's is his 25th TV special since ``A Charlie Brown Christmas.'' He still draws the seven-day-a-week ``Peanuts'' strip that by CBS' estimate appears in more than 2,200 newspapers worldwide. He reckons he's drawn 15,000 of the strips since he began them 40 years ago. More than a few cartoonist have groused that the constant pressure of a daily strip at times has put them up against the wall, if not under it. No such gripes are heard from Schulz. ``No, quality is the only thing that worries me,'' he says. ``I don't worry about getting them done. I'm always worrying that I'll just end up doing the same things over and over. ``Just to try to keep the thing alive, and be trying new things, that's the hard part. Just getting it done is nothing. I think cartoonists who say it's hard to keep up the schedule are just lazy, that's all.''
AP880819-0215 	X	The chairman of Texas Air Corp. Friday defended a decision by the company's subsidiary, Eastern Airlines, to lay off 4,000 employees and cut service as a way to ``stabilize the company'' by cutting losses. Frank Lorenzo, testifying at a federal court hearing on Eastern's plans to eliminate service to 14 cities, said the layoffs and schedule changes were a necessary step to save the financially troubled carrier. ``If Eastern's management is not permitted to take the actions to save this company, then Eastern may run out of cash,'' Lorenzo said, rejecting suggestions by union attorneys that he was trying to bust organized labor at Eastern by transferring the carrier's assets to Continental Airlines, another Texas Air property. Three labor unions that represent Eastern employees have challenged the plans and obtained a temporary restraining order that bars the airline from making layoffs. U.S. District Judge Barrington D. Parker is holding hearings on the union's bid for a permanent injunction. Lorenzo defended the proposed cutbacks ``as an attempt to stabilize the company ... and decrease the losses.'' Eastern currently is in federally supervised contract negotiations with two of its unions, the Association of Air Line Pilots and the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers. Lorenzo denied suggestions that Texas Air planned to merge Eastern's operations into Continental. Union attorneys produced a draft of a speech that Lorenzo was to give to Japanese investors in 1986 after Texas Air had purchased Eastern. The draft said that the purchase of Eastern gave Texas Air leverage over the unions. ``Eastern's airplanes can be repainted and moved over to Continental where they will be flown by non-union pilots,'' the speech draft said. But Lorenzo said the draft was prepared by an investment banking firm. It was unclear from the testimony if Lorenzo ever delivered that portion of the speech.
AP900402-0166 	X	Sen. Bill Bradley announced Monday that he will seek a third term on Capitol Hill, quashing speculation about a 1992 presidential bid by saying he planned to represent New Jersey for the full term. ``I'll say the same thing in 1990 that I said in 1984 ... that I will serve my six-year term,'' the Democrat told about 150 people gathered at Montclair State College. ``I can't conceive of anything that would change it.'' A poll of Democratic state chairmen from throughout the nation recently put Bradley, 46, at the top of their list for the presidential nomination in 1992. Bradley, however, said he wants to make his contribution representing New Jersey. Bradley, a Rhodes scholar from Denville who played basketball for Princeton University and the New York Knicks, is seen as one Northeasterner who would be acceptable in more conservative regions. His wife, Ernestine Schlant Bradley, a professor of German and comparative literature at Montclair State, introduced her husband. Speaking beneath an arch of red, white and blue balloons inside the college's student center, he talked of children, the environment and education. ``I want to make sure the kids of New Jersey get their share,'' he said. Bradley planned a second campaign stop at a water treatment plant outside Camden, N.J., later in the day. The senator is running what is expected to be a $10 million campaign to keep his seat. Aides say most of the money will pay for television advertising in the expensive New York and Philadelphia media markets and fend off possible negative campaigning by the GOP. Republican Christine Todd Whitman, 44, of Far Hills, N.J., said she will run a positive race strictly on the issues, including tax and spending. Bradley declined her challenge to cap his campaign spending at $3 million. He reaffirmed, however, his support Monday for public financing of campaigns, spending limits, limits on contributions by political action committees and reduced television costs for candidates. Mrs. Whitman, former president of the state Board of Public Utilities and a former Somerset County official, anticipates running a $1.5 million race. A possible GOP primary candidate is John Scott, chairman of the Conservative Caucus of New Jersey. Candidates have until April 12 to file for a place on the June 5 primary ballot. As of Friday, no other Democrat had filed. Bradley built a national record through 1986 tax reform and his positions on Third World debt and trade relationships with Canada, Mexico and Japan. In his 1978 race against Republican Jeffrey Bell, Bradley captured 56 percent of the vote. In 1984, he defeated Mary Mochary with 64 percent of the ballots cast.
AP900224-0163 	X	``Suddenly there came a tapping, as of someone gently rapping, rapping at my chamber door.'' Yo. Edgar Allan Poe, meet Sylvester Stallone. Stallone took a detour during filming of ``Rocky V'' to visit the Edgar Allan Poe National Historic Site, a house where the poet and short-story writer lived for two years. Park ranger Joelle Wagner said Thursday she answered a knock at the locked front door Feb. 12 to find the creator of movie hero Rocky Balboa on the doorstep with co-star Talia Shire and a bodyguard. ``I was flabbergasted,'' she said. ``I had to take a few moments to compose myself.'' As the group toured the three-story structure, one of four houses Poe rented while living in Philadelphia from 1838 to 1844, Stallone told Ms. Wagner he had written a movie script about the author of the poem ``The Raven.'' ``He's just in awe of Poe,'' Ms. Wagner said. ``He said he really admired him.'' Stallone, the lead in such action movies as ``Rambo'' and ``Tango and Cash,'' did not say if he wanted to portray Poe, she said. Ms. Wagner said the trio viewed the park's slide show, which describes Poe's life from his childhood in Richmond, Va., his time at West Point and his literary life in Philadelphia, where he was most successful as a poet, short-story writer, literary critic and editor. Poe died in 1849 in Baltimore as he was traveling to New York. Stories at the time said he collapsed in the street of an alcohol or drug overdose. While touring the house, Stallone discussed Poe's life and literary works with his friends, according to Ms. Wagner. ``There wasn't much I could tell him'' about Poe, the park ranger said. She said Stallone bought a book on the writer. Movie publicist Dave Fulton said Stallone wrote the script because he believes the writer ``gets within the soul'' of people and poetry. ``He's a big fan,'' Fulton said. Poe also wrote ``The Fall of the House of Usher,'' ``The Black Cat,'' and ``The Murders of the Rue Morgue,'' which established the mystery or detective short-story form.
AP881102-0007 	X	A man convicted of a felony for munching on grapes at a grocery store was ordered to pay 40 cents in restitution and $600 in court costs. Eli Bradley Jr., 52, could have been imprisoned for up to four years on the charge of larceny from a building. But Jackson County Circuit Judge Russell E. Noble on Wednesday delayed the sentence and said he would consider removing the conviction from Bradley's record if he stayed out of trouble until Oct. 4, 1989. ``I'm going to appeal this because I'm not guilty of no felony,'' Bradley said after the hearing. ``Any felony on your record works against you for the rest of your life. If they can do what they did in this court, nobody is safe in the courts.'' Bradley was arrested March 4 while leaving a grocery store. Security guards testified during his trial that they saw Bradley eating several handfuls of grapes while shopping. Bradley testified that he ate no more than two or three grapes to be sure they were seedless before buying more than 1{ pounds of grapes along with other groceries for $13.25. Prosecutor Joseph Filip offered in June to reduce the charge to misdemeanor shoplifting. Defense lawyer Richard L. Wilkins chose to go to trial on the felony charge, which he considered easier to defend. A jury convicted Bradley in September. ``This matter, in my opinion, could have been handled with much less expense as a misdemeanor, not a felony,'' the judge said Wednesday. Assistant prosecutor Donald Ray said his office probably would oppose removal of the felony conviction next year even if Bradley stayed out of trouble. Filip said the September verdict showed the community agrees that ``we don't want people stealing from stores.'' In the Republican prosecutor's re-election campaign, his Democratic challenger, Paul R. Adams, has chided him as having ``made the county safe for grapes.''
AP900619-0044 	X	``The guy was pointing his gun under people's desks and killing them one by one. I just saw the bottom of the carpet and just prayed.'' _ Rick Langille, a manager at a Florida auto loan agency where a gunman opened fire, killing eight people.
AP900105-0289 	X	The nation's unemployment rate held steady at 5.3 percent last month as gains in service industries offset the ninth consecutive monthly drop in manufacturing jobs, the Labor Department said. The steady civilian jobless rate, which ended 1989 just under the level where it began, gave private analysts hope Friday that the economy's current sluggish growth will not worsen into a recession.
AP881025-0055 	X	Carla Southwell shed tears of joy when she saw her 8-month-old son for the first time since she was jailed almost seven weeks ago for hiding her two daughters from her ex-husband. The tears of joy turned to tears of anguish moments later. ``He didn't even remember me,'' she said, sobbing. The 26-year-old Kent City woman alleges her ex-husband, William Southwell, sexually abused the girls, ages 4 and 5, during unsupervised visits. Southwell, 30, has denied the charges, saying the girls were manipulated by their mother. An ongoing investigation has turned up no evidence that he abused the girls. On Sept. 7, Ms. Southwell was jailed for contempt of court and ordered held until the girls are surrendered. Her fiance, Kelly Erhart, and relatives are caring for the Ms. Southwell's son, fathered by Erhart, who is not part of the court order. In a telephone interview Monday from the Kent County Jail, Ms. Southwell said she shares a cell with 10 to 20 other women, including one facing a murder trial. She said she has had to fight off one attack. ``I do a lot of writing letters, reading, praying,'' Ms. Southwell said. ``And thinking.'' In a videotape shown at a hearing last month, the couple's daughters indicated they had been abused. Ms. Southwell said she has not been in contact with her daughters, but is confident they are safe and healthy. ``I think about them constantly,'' she said, choking back tears. ``This is the worst thing that a loving mother could ever have to go through.'' Before making a decision on custody, Circuit Judge George Buth said he wants the children to be evaluated by the county Department of Protective Services. Otherwise, he said, he fears Ms. Southwell may run away with the girls. ``The children are a battleground in this case,'' Buth said Friday. ``They're the ones suffering.'' Buth said he is concerned that Ms. Southwell made the allegations against her ex-husband during a custody evaluation that was in the father's favor. ``I can't say I've made up my mind whether sexual abuse has occurred,'' said Southwell, also of Kent City. ``If Carla's so sure I sexually abused them, why doesn't she give them up to protective services like the judge ordered so professionals can make a decision? I think my kids' lives need to be straightened out and Carla's not doing that.'' Ms. Southwell, who has had temporary custody of the children, alleges the agency did a poor job in investigating her previous allegations and she said they lack concern for the children. Southwell said custody was recommended for him because his ex-wife denied him access to the children. ``This is the fifth time I've gone over two months without seeing them because Carla wouldn't let me,'' he said. Though a physician testified at a custody hearing that one of the girls had injuries typical of sexual abuse, an investigator with the Sheriff's Department said there was no evidence to prove Southwell was guilty. ``I believe that in her own heart and mind she believes this, but we can't prove that it happened,'' Sgt. Ken Kleinheksel said. ``All we got was a very confused statement from a child.'' Ms. Southwell said she will stay behind bars until she is assured her ex-husband will not have contact with their daughters. ``It's very difficult to accept the fact that I can't see my daughters, but I'll hang on and I'll fight to the last day,'' she said.
AP880620-0136 	X	The Reagan Justice Department was ``asleep at the switch'' three years ago when a Pentagon investigator discovered that defense contractors and private consultants were illegally obtaining Pentagon weapons secrets, Sen. Charles E. Grassley said today. Attorney General Edwin Meese III denied the accusation, saying at a news conference that the prosecution of defense procurement cases has been one of the department's top priorities and that ``at no time has this department had to be dragged into any indictment where the evidence is there.'' Grassley, R-Iowa, said in a floor speech that a top Justice Department official grabbed the microphone from the investigator in October 1985, as the investigator was about to testify about his findings. Grassley, who chaired the House Judiciary subcommittee at the time, said, ``I stopped the hearing at that point. I wish now I hadn't. There wasnt anything in that testimony that could have jeopardized that case.'' ``The public must be made aware of the fact that the Justice Department was asleep at switch,'' Grassley said, because it was investigating a single company and ignoring reports of widespread abuse in procurement, including bribery. The October 1985 testimony alleged that private consultants were regularly receiving classified details about U.S. weapons systems. ``The Justice Department could have pursued this aggressively more than three years ago but they didn't,'' he said in an earlier interview with the Associated Press. The 2-year-old probe has focused chiefly on Navy weapons-buying. It became public last week when FBI and Naval Investigative Service agents conducted coast-to-coast raids on the offices of past and present Pentagon officials, private consultants and contractors. U.S. Attorney Henry Hudson has said privately that perhaps as many as 200 indictments could be expected out of the investigation, a government source said Sunday. In October 1985 Grassley was chairman of the Senate Judiciary administrative practices subcommittee, a panel which he used to examine defense procurement practices. Grassley is a frequent critic of what he calls widespread waste and abuse in Pentagon spending. Grassley said Justice Department officials blocked the testimony of Robert Segal, a Defense Department investigator who was the Pentagon's liaison with the Justice Department's Defense Procurement Fraud Unit. The DPFU was a special Justice Department office set up to investigate waste in the military budget. It was well known in the Justice Department that some elements of the Pentagon and the Justice Department held DPFU in low esteem and there is speculation that when the current allegations first came to light the matter was steered away from the agency and into Hudson's office. Segal, who worked for the Pentagon's Defense Criminal Investigative Service, was prepared to testify that private consultants regularly received classified Pentagon documents that should not have been available outside the government, Grassley said. Segal also reported at the time that ``many of these (defense) companies appear to have espionage units whose main function is to obtain copies of highly classified documents in order to give their companies a competitive edge,'' Grassley said. Grassley said the allegations predated the current investigation. ``This goes back much before what we're seeing now,'' he said. Segal's testimony, which he never got to deliver but which was released publicly at the time, said that a defense procurement criminal case against GTE Corp. ``is but the tip of the proverbial iceberg. ... The investigation involves at least 25 companies. ... Many of those companies are household words. ... The primary focus of the case is ... the indiscriminate distribution of both proprietary and highly classified government documents by individuals within and without the government.'' Justice Department official Victoria Toensing interrupted the key part of Segal's testimony before he could give it and demanded that it be halted, saying that he was touching on areas that concerned criminal matters pending against GTE. After the contents of Segal's testimony came out in the news media, the Justice Department issued a statement saying that ``The release by Sen. Grassley's staff of erroneous, misleading and inflammatory information about a criminal case that is currently pending trial is most unfortunate and regrettable. ... Justice must not be allowed to become a political football.'' Responding to Grassley, Meese told a news conference that ``Investigating and prosecuting defense procurement fraud has been one of the department's top priorities for several years.'' The attorney general said that since 1985, the defense procurement fraud unit has obtained about 43 indictments and criminal informations in significant cases, has obtained 35 convictions and has recovered some $32 million. When asked about Segal's testimony that the department had not vigorously pursued the passing along of confidential information, Meese said that ``I can assure you that at no time has this department had to be dragged into any indictment where the evidence is there.'' Meese also said there were a number of spin-off cases that grew out of the GTE probe which are being prosecuted. He did not identify them. President Reagan, attending a summit meeting of the leaders of western democracies in Toronto, refused to comment Sunday on reports that former Navy Secretary John Lehman Jr. may have warned his longtime ally, military consultant Melvyn Paisley, that Paisley was under investigation. ``I am not going to comment until we have all the information,'' Reagan said. Lehman has not returned numerous phone calls from The Associated Press seeking comment. Paisley, a former top Navy official and close friend of Lehman, has emerged as a principal target of the investigation. The FBI is looking at Paisley's dealings with a number of major defense contractors that hired him as a consultant shortly after he left his Navy job in April 1987. Grassley said the scandal results from an atmosphere caused by ``a business-as-usual, good-old-boy network where people move from the Pentagon to cushy jobs in private industry and everybody looks out for their friends.'' Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman Sam Nunn, interviewed on ABC-TV's ``This Week with David Brinkley,'' said the Reagan administration concentrated too much on obtaining more money for the Pentagon, without paying enough attention to how it was being spent. ``We had people being selected for their ideological beliefs, for their salesmanship, but not for good sound management. I think the emphasis has been on salesmanship and getting the money and the management end of it has been the last of the list of priorities,'' said Nunn, D-Ga. His view was echoed by Rep. Les Aspin, D-Wis., chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, who also appeared on the ABC show. ``The decisions in the Lehman Navy were really highly centralized in a few people right around the secretary, John Lehman, and he had a very strong view about people who were with him and people who were against him. And some of the people who were with him may be a little shady characters,'' Aspin said.
AP880425-0300 	X	About 3,000 black autoworkers returned to work Monday after staging a 10-day strike in defiance of their union to protest divestment arrangements made by Ford Motor Co. The wildcat strike began April 15 at the South African Motor Corp.'s main plant in Pretoria. The company, known as SAMCOR, said its entire paid-by-the-hour workforce joined the strike, and the production loss was estimated at between 1,800 to 2,000 vehicles. The workers were protesting an agreement signed last year by Ford, SAMCOR and the National Union of Metalworkers under which Ford donated the bulk of its minority holding in SAMCOR to a trust administered by the workers. The trust was intended to fund development projects in the communities where the workers live. But the workers maintain they should receive the dividends directly. According to an industry source who spoke on condition of anonymity, the strikers decided to resume work while negotiations with the union continued to resolve the dispute over the dividends. The union had no immediate comment on the matter. Prior to its disinvestment late last year, Ford owned 42 percent of SAMCOR. The corporation was formed in 1985 when Ford and Anglo American Corp., South Africa's largest conglomerate, merged their South African auto operations.
AP880809-0037 	X	England ``celebreighted'' the birth of a royal baby at 8:18 p.m. on the eighth day of the eighth month of 1988, tourists ``migreighted'' to the Kentucky town of Eighty Eight, and even mathematicians ``apprecieighted'' the chubby numeral. Buckingham Palace announced Monday that the Duchess of York, wife of Prince Andrew, gave birth to a 6 lb. 12 oz. daughter, their first child, who is fifth in line to the British throne. Mother and child are well, the palace said. A Palace statement said Andrew, the Duke of York and second son of Queen Elizabeth II, was with his wife, the former Sarah Ferguson, when she was ``safely delivered of a daughter at 8:18 p.m. (19:18 GMT) today.'' In Hackensack, N.J., Kelli-Lee O'Brien came into the world at 8:08 a.m. EDT Monday weighing 8 pounds, 8{ ounces. Her mother's doctor, making his eighth delivery in his 2-week-old private practice, has eight children. ``Everybody thought they were joking with all the eights coming up,'' said Jean Werner, head nurse in the delivery unit at Hackensack Medical Center. The magic of 8-8-88 wasn't lost on the Chinese, whose word for eight, ``baat,'' rhymes with ``faat,'' the Cantonese word for prosperity. They threw lavish parties. Merchants in Hong Kong used the date to promote everything from Kentucky Fried Chicken to real estate, while Hong Kong gamblers tested their luck in a special lottery with a sweetened jackpot. Michigan gamblers bought more than 10,520 state Lottery tickets with the 8888 combination, and officials said Connecticut's state lottery sold out its 8888 tickets when sales hit a predetermined limit: $8 million. Tascosa National Bank in Amarillo, Texas, offered 88-day personal certificates of deposit at 8[ percent interest (with a minimum deposit of $8,888). Numerologists said Monday, 8-8-88, was especially lucky for marriage, and thousands of Israeli couples had registered to marry on the date. Reception halls around the country were booked solid, the daily Jerusalem Post reported. In Eighty Eight, Ky., about 500 well-wishers cheered Tom Accardo and Deborah Muhlbeier, who got married at 8:08 p.m. CDT. The bride carried eight white roses. Their 8 foot, 8 inch-long wedding cake was topped with an ``88.'' ``Our marriage is magical. It's just the icing on the cake and I'm telling you it's thick icing,'' said Mrs. Accardo, 34. ``The biggest part of it is the people of Eighty Eight. The town has been incredible.'' The couple had not set a date yet when they learned of the festivities planned in the small farm community of 150 residents, from a television news report in their distant state of Wyoming. ``Deb just looked at me and said, `Wouldn't that be fun to go in there and get married on 8-8-88 in Eighty Eight, Kentucky?''' recalled Accardo, 29, a salesman. In attendance at Eighty Eight was Pearl Russie, who drove up to the Eighty Eight Market in her Oldsmobile Delta 88. Her license plate: ``ANY 88.'' As Ms. Russie, 45, explained: ``I'm an 88 freak.'' Eighty Eight's post office handled 25,000 pieces of mail for people wanting the EIGHTY-EIGHT 8-8-88 cancellation, said Fred Van Fleet, the U.S. Postal Service's area manager. The day also began the centennial anniversary of the American Mathematical Society based in Providence, R.I. ``Eight is, from a standpoint of pure arithmetic, the second cube, the sixth Fibonacci number, and the sum of the first three digits of pi,'' wrote former Scientific American magazine columnist Martin Gardern in a news release. ``Applied to the outside world, eight takes on more glamour as the notes of an octave, the arms of an octopus, the eight-cylinder motor, stock market eighths, the figure-8 knot, the skater's figure 8, the eight-hour work day, behind the eight ball, old Spanish pieces of eight, and the eighth wonder of the world.'' At least until 9-9-99.
AP900225-0056 	X	The leader of the Sajudis reform movement said Sunday that independence for Lithuania could be achieved this year after his group claimed a landslide victory in the Soviet Union's first multiparty election. In balloting for the Baltic republic's 141-seat parliament Saturday, voters appeared to have chosen the country's first legislature not dominated by Communists. The main contenders were the Sajudis Popular Front, which has led the drive for independence, and the reformed Lithuanian Communist Party. On the street outside the Sajudis headquarters, passers-by gathered excitedly around posters announcing the victory. Unofficial returns showed that of the 90 races decided, Sajudis-endorsed candidates took 72 seats and non-Sajudis candidates took 18, said Rita Dapkus, head of the Sajudis information agency. ``If that is not a landslide, then what is?'' Algimantas Cekuolis, a Sajudis officer, said at a news conference Sunday. ``It is a very clear indication of what the people of Lithuania think.'' Sajudis gathered the election results by calling local election commissions, and the tallies were believed to be reliable. Official results were not expected until Monday. Mrs. Dapkus said 45 races had no majority winner and will be decided by runoff votes on March 10, while six were invalidated by insufficient voter turnout or other factors. They will be decided in April. Turnout among the 2.56 million eligible voters was about 75 percent, officials said. Vytautus Landsbergis, Sajudis chairman, said the results showed Lithuanians trust his movement. ``We have a common and very clear goal. Our clear goal is statehood and the independence of Lithuania,'' he said. ``This goal is achievable this year.'' The new Parliament's chief task will be navigating the Baltic republic's difficult course to secession from the Soviet Union. Sajudis wants talks with Moscow to prepare for an orderly secession, which would break a 50-year-old tie that began with Lithuania's occupation by the Red Army in 1940 and its annexation later that year. The movement supports a neutral, sovereign Lithuania characterized by a market economy and guarantees for human and cultural rights. Although Sajudis dominated the voting, Landsbergis did not rule out a strong role for the reformed Communists in a coalition government selected by the new Parliament. He stressed the close ties between Sajudis and reform-minded Communist Party members. ``Probably we will not ignore the party as an administrative power and partner,'' said Landsbergis, who easily won election as a parliament deputy from northern Lithuania. But, he said, the hard-line Communists, who oppose independence, would probably not be welcome in the coalition. The participation by Sajudis and at least six other parties in parliamentary elections was a first in the Soviet Union. In December, Lithuania became the first of the 15 Soviet republics to legalize non-Communist parties. The reform Communists won 22 seats, but 13 of those were in districts where they were backed by Sajudis. Candidates from the Lithuanian chapter of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, which remains loyal to Moscow and opposes full independence, won seven seats. Two non-party independents also won seats without Sajudis backing. The Communist winners included the party's first secretary, and Lithuanian President Algirdas Brazauskas, who in December defied Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev and led his party to split with moscow. Among the 72 Sajudis winners were 46 independents, 13 reform Communists, nine Social Democrats, two Greens and two Christian Democrats. Moldavians voted Sunday in their first free elections under Soviet rule and expressed hopes their new Parliament would be able to win greater sovereignty from Moscow. The main challenger to the Communists in Moldavia was the Moldavian Popular Front, which likes to compare itself to Sajudis. The Red Army occupied Lithuania in June 1940 in accordance with the secret terms of the Ribbentrop-Molotov pact, in which Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union divided central Europe between themselves. Lithuania's old Parliament was coerced into voting to join the Soviet Union the next month, and Lithuania was formally annexed by the Soviets on Aug. 24, 1940. Lithuania had emerged as an independent state in 1918 with the collapse of the Russian empire in World War I.
AP880913-0152 	X	Standing on South Africa's doorstep, Pope John Paul II called on the people of this desert nation Tuesday to assist victims of racial discrimination who are ``deprived of their legitimate rights.'' The pope, on a one-day visit to diamond-rich and bone-dry Botswana, praised the nation as ``an island of peace in a troubled sea.'' Botswana, a landlocked country of 1.1 million people, has never fought a battle in its 22 years of independence despite bordering such turbulent places as Angola, Mozambique, South-West Africa and South Africa. ``You are a peace-loving and friendly people who believe in the basic equality and human dignity of every man and woman,'' the pontiff told about 2,000 people who greeted him at the airport, including a choir of bare-breasted, teen-age schoolgirls. Later, in a speech at the Cathedral of Christ the King, the pontiff clearly referred to South Africa and its apartheid policies of racial segregation, without mentioning the country by name. ``You have witnessed the plight of those who are subjected by law to discrimination,'' the pontiff told the audience in Gaborone, 10 miles from South Africa's northern border. ``I gladly support your desire to be close to those who are unjustly deprived of their legitimate rights and lack decent living conditions.'' The pope arrived Tuesday from Zimbabwe, the first stop on his five-nation tour of southern Africa. He travels Wednesday to Lesotho, a mountain kingdom surrounded by South Africa, where he is likely to make additional comments on apartheid. The pontiff is not visiting South Africa on this trip but the Vatican has said he may do so in the future. At an afternoon mass in Botswana's national stadium, John Paul renewed his call for regional peace to a crowd of 50,000 _ more than Botswana's entire Catholic population of 45,000. Several thousand of those attending were from South Africa, according to church officials. ``What are the causes of humanity's fears?'' the pontiff said. ``It is the absence of justice and peace in our lives, and in the world, that so often troubles us and arouses our fears.'' ``Nation still lifts sword against nation. There is much training for war,'' he said. South Africa has raided Botswana several times in past years killing alleged guerrillas of the African National Congress. The pope was serenaded by several hundred members of a women's choir and received gifts from Catholic parishes around the country. Two parishes from western Botswana brought crosses they had carried by foot and car across the Kalahari desert, which makes up 80 percent of Botswana. Botswana has a Western-style, multiparty democracy, a rarity in Africa. Diamond mines make it relatively wealthy on the continent but it remains heavily dependent economically on South Africa. On papal matters, the Vatican said Tuesday the pope would return to Africa next year, with stops in Tanzania and the island nation of Madagascar. There has been speculation that the trip, expected next May, also may include Angola and South Africa. Vatican spokesman Joaquim Navarrro, traveling with the pope, said neither country was ``on the program,'' although he confirmed that Angolan bishops had recently sent an invitation to the pope.
AP900503-0209 	X	A jury was selected Thursday for Raymond Buckey's second trial in the McMartin Pre-School child molestation case, the longest and costliest criminal proceeding in U.S. history. The seating of 12 regular jurors and six alternates came less than a month after attorneys began their inquiry to find panelists unbiased by publicity surrounding the first Buckey trial. Opening statements were set for Monday. Buckey, 31, who has been a defendant for nearly seven years, was acquitted of 40 molestation charges Jan. 18, and his mother, Peggy McMartin Buckey, was acquitted of 12 charges. But prosecutors decided to retry Buckey on eight counts on which the jury deadlocked. A total of 13 charges were unresolved by that jury, but the prosecution dropped five of those counts. The first trial lasted nearly three years and cost $13 million. The eight remaining charges being tried involve three children who attended the now defunct McMartin preschool in Manhattan Beach _ a dramatically diminished group compared to the hundreds once described as alleged victims. Buckey and his lawyers, who had hoped for dismissal of all remaining charges, have accused District Attorney Ira Reiner of playing politics with the case. They say he decided to retry Buckey to further his own ambitions to become California attorney general. Reiner has denied any ulterior motives. Parents of McMartin school children campaigned loudly to have Buckey retried in the week after his acquittal on most charges. They conducted a letter-writing campaign, went on national TV talk shows and held press conferences to espouse their views. Deputy District Attorneys Joe Martinez and Pam Ferrero have said they hope the new trial can be concluded in six months. But Superior Court Judge Stanley Weisberg warned prospective jurors at the outset that the trial could continue into 1991.
AP880821-0040 	X	Three men and a women fled East Germany Sunday by swimming across a river to West Berlin, narrowly avoiding a patrol boat and clambering up a river bank to safety, news reports and West Berlin officials said. West Berlin police said the woman in the group injured a foot in the early evening swim of about 260 feet across Berlin's Spree River. The others were uninjured. West Germany's ARD television showed video footage of the escapees swimming the last 10 feet to the West Berlin bank just as the East German patrol boat approached a few yards away. ARD said the film was taken by a Briton who happened to be on the western bank at the time. The report did not provide the names of the escapees or of the person taping the scene. The Wall separating communist East Berlin from West Berlin is located on the eastern side of the river at the spot where the escape took place. However, the western bank of the river is the actual border, with the water in East Berlin territory. A West Berlin police official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said East German border guards did not shoot or otherwise attempt to stop the escapees. No shots were fired from the patrol boat. Police said they did not know how the four got past the Wall, which is 10 feet high in most sections. The three western sectors of Berlin are controlled by the United States, Britain and France. East Berlin is the Soviet sector of the city, which is located 110 miles east of the West German border.
AP900511-0141 	X	A court-appointed trustee says he will sell Jim Bakker's former satellite network to Oral Roberts University for $6 million at the end of the month unless he finds a buyer for the entire PTL complex. ``I do have a firm deal with Oral Roberts University. However, in the contract, I expressly reserved the right to sell all the assets until the point of approval of the sale of just the network,'' the trustee, lawyer Dennis Shedd, said Thursday. The 500-acre Heritage USA Christian retreat founded by Bakker in Fort Mill and 1,700 acres of undeveloped PTL land in South Carolina have been for sale along with PTL's broadcasting holdings since April 1988. Shedd filed legal papers in Columbia on Thursday asking U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thurmond Bishop to approve the sale of just the television production equipment and PTL satellite and cable leases to the Tulsa, Okla.-based university May 31. The Roberts ministry has been plagued by tight finances, especially since donations to television evangelists plummeted following the 1987 scandals of Jimmy Swaggart and Bakker. In September, Oral Roberts, a 72-year-old faith healer, closed his City of Faith hospital and medical school and put his home and other ministry-owned property on the market to repay $25 million in debts. The Tulsa World newspaper quoted Roberts' son Richard as saying God told his father ``in what my dad believes is his last major charge from God, to create a 24-hour-a-day, seven-day-a-week global Christian, charismatic healing network.'' Richard Roberts said regents approved the offer this week, and the university made a down payment of $1 million raised from longtime backers. Mark Swadener, chief financial officer for the ministries, told the newspaper he thought the network could provide a vital source of revenue for the university. He called the plan to purchase the network ``an act of faith.'' The ministry also was seeking guaranteed access to the airwaves at a time when secular networks are displacing evangelists on Sunday mornings in favor of news shows and cartoons, the newspaper reported. Bakker was convicted last fall of fraudulently raising $158 million from PTL contributors and is serving a 45-year prison sentence in a federal prison in Minnesota. In Charlotte, N.C., the evangelist who introduced Bakker to church secretary Jessica Hahn pleaded guilty to lying to a federal grand jury about why he set up the meeting, which eventually led to Bakker's downfall. U.S. District Court Judge Robert Potter was expected to sentence John Wesley Fletcher later this month, Fletcher's lawyer said Thursday. The perjury count could carry a sentence of eight to 14 months. Fletcher denied during a September 1987 appearance before the grand jury that he brought Miss Hahn to a hotel to have sex with Bakker. He later testified he had lied. The broadcast network purchased by Roberts is operating with a skeleton staff of about 10 employees. It broadcasts shows produced by other evangelists such as Jerry Falwell, James Robison and Richard Roberts. At the time PTL declared bankruptcy in June 1987, the satellite network was carried on 1,300 cable systems that had 12 million subscribers. According to court papers filed Thursday, that has slipped to 800 systems with 6.4 million subscribers. Even in its weakened condition, the PTL network would be a major plum for Roberts, said Jerry Rose, president of the National Religious Broadcasters Association. ``You're still talking about a major network that has an awful lot of potential,'' Rose said. Besides PTL, there are four other religious satellite networks in the United States: Pat Robertson's Christian Broadcasting Network, the Southern Baptist Convention's ACTS network, Paul Crouch's Trinity Network and Jimmy Allen's LIFE TV. Other evangelists such as Roberts buy time on those four networks.
AP900928-0022 	X	``Fear matters,'' says Georgia State University economic forecaster Donald Ratajczak, so it doesn't surprise him if the Bush administration is dancing away from using the word ``recession'' to describe the state of the economy. It doesn't surprise Alfred Kahn, either. A retired Cornell University professor, Kahn was chairman of President Carter's Council on Wage and Price Stability. He recalls what happened in 1978 when he suggested that unless inflation were brought under control pronto the nation might face a deep depression. Stuart Eizenstat, a presidential aide, called up and asked him if he might just quit using that word. So next time out, Kahn used ``banana'' when he meant ``depression.'' He talked about The Great Banana of 1929. He said if inflation weren't brought under control, the nation might have a big banana. Kahn learned a political lesson. Fear matters and words alone can trigger fear. Recession is a loaded word, and economists who can't agree on whether the country is in one yet concur that the word itself can spur one on. ``Fear matters,'' said Georgia State's Ratajczak. ``But obviously what's in the pocketbook matters, too. If the pocketbook is still jingling, fear can soon be overcome.'' ``People start looking at their budgets and seeing what they can live without. They tend to make business slow down when they do that,'' said Bob Dieli, an economist for the Northern Trust Co. of Chicago. Small wonder that when the bad news came out Tuesday, six weeks before an election, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said, ``We don't believe we are in a recession right now.'' He was commenting on the Commerce Department's report that the economy grew at a stagnant annual rate of 0.45 percent in the second quarter of this year. And small wonder, at least to linguist Walker Gibson, that Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors, says he'd like to redefine recession. Gibson is founder of the Committee on Public Doublespeak of the National Council of Teachers of English. The usual definition is that a recession occurs after six months of decline in the gross national product, the total value of new goods and services in the nation. Greenspan told Congress last week he'd prefer a less rigid definition. A true recession, he said, is a ``cumulative unwinding of economic activity.'' Richard Rahn, chief economist for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said he can't blame the White House for refusing to label the economy's current state a recession. ``If I were the president, I wouldn't say we were in a recession, either,'' Rahn said. ``They are not in a position to give judgment calls the way we and other outsiders are. They are the guardian of the statistics. They need to be very, very cautious.'' The fear that the word recession triggers, said Gibson, tells something about language itself. The word ``recession,'' he said, ``almost certainly started as a euphemism for an even more fearsome word, depression. ``But it's been used so long as a euphemism that it's lost its power to euphemize,'' he said. ``Now they talk about `downturns.'''
AP900110-0091 	X	Police blocked highways today, and an official said 15,000 people were detained following the assassination of a former defense minister, the most prominent victim of the nation's 10-year-old guerrilla war. Enrique Lopez Albujar was killed Tuesday when three Shining Path rebels armed with machine guns killed him near a shopping center in a Lima suburb, police said. He died at a military hospital with at least 10 bullet wounds. Witnesses said the four gunmen fled in an automobile. Police units aided by six helicopters searched through Lima and its outskirts Tuesday night and early today, stopping about 8,000 cars in a search for suspects, police said. Most of the 15,000 detained were taken in for not carrying documents and are expected to be released in the next few days, an Interior Ministry spokesman said on condition of anonymity. Lopez was the first person who had served on the Cabinet to be killed in guerrilla violence that has claimed the lives of hundreds of federal and local officials _ more than 130 in 1989 alone. The main guerrilla faction is the Shining Path, a fanatical Maoist-inspired group that has been fighting to topple Peru's elected governments since 1980. Witnesses interviewed by The Associated Press said Lopez had an office in the shopping center and usually arrived at the same time every day, often accompanied by a bodyguard. Speaking to reporters at the government palace, President Alan Garcia said Lopez was entitled to a military guard and that he didn't understand why Lopez was alone when he was attacked. ``It pains me and I regret that he was alone in spite of the situation of war we are living in,'' Garcia said. Lopez was named the country's first defense minister by Garcia, taking office in 1987 when the ministry was formed. Previously, the army, navy and air force had their own ministries. He served until May, when he was replaced by army Gen. Julio Velasquez. Shining Path began its insurgency in Ayacucho, in the Andes mountains 235 from the capital. In the past year, it has stepped up assaults in Lima. Last fall, it tried to disrupt municipal elections by killing local officials across Peru. But Peruvians defied death threats and turned out in large numbers to vote on Nov. 12. Peruvians expect the Shining Path to step up attacks as presidential elections slated for April draw closer. The Shining Path operates throughout the highlands, including in the Huallaga Valley, part of the coca-producing jungle in the northeast and the single largest source of coca-leaf in the world. Authorities say the rebels operate in league with drug-traffickers in the valley, protecting them from police in exchange for a share of drug profits. The government says more than 17,500 people, including government forces, civilians, guerrillas and American reporter Todd Smith of The Tampa Tribune have been killed in the insurgency. Authorities routinely accuse the Shining Path of massacring peasants, but in November Amnesty International accused government forces of becoming equally savage in their effort to crush the insurgency. The London-based human rights group said both sides were guilty of torture, mutilation and murder.
AP900115-0125 	X	Here are the number of times members of the House were mentioned on nightly news programs on CBS, NBC and ABC in 1987 and 1988, according to a new study. The list contains the names of some members who are no longer members. It also contains the names of members who were elected after the study closed, denoted by an ``X'' following the name.
AP900329-0213 	X	A major shareholder of embattled General Development Corp. has outlined a rescue plan calling for the sale of assets of the scandal-plagued Florida builder. United Capital Corp. filed the restructuring plan Wednesday in response to a letter from the indicted builder saying serious inquiries had been received about buying the Miami-based company, its assets or stock. GDC pleaded guilty to a mail-fraud conspiracy charge March 22 in federal court amid allegations the company priced 10,000 homes well above fair market values and kept buyers from learning the difference. United Capital, a New York-based real estate company that holds 12.6 percent of GDC's common stock, has asked GDC's board to delay any major decisions until its annual meeting May 4 to give stockholders a voice in the company's future. United Capital paid an average of almost $13 a share for GDC stock in 1988. GDU stock was up 50 cents to $4.75 a share in early New York Stock Exchange trading today. The restructuring plan filed by United Capital with the Securities and Exchange Commission proposed selling the company's time-sharing and utility businesses and undeveloped commercial property. The plan also offered short-term operating funds and pledged to complete infrastructure improvements in GDC's planned communities, a big worry for homeowners. GDC acknowledged it ``is experiencing severe financial pressures in large part'' because of the criminal investigation. In a separate SEC filing Tuesday, United Capital called for the ouster of six directors and suggested a replacement slate. GDC responded Wednesday by naming Chesterfield Smith, a senior partner with the Tampa-based law firm of Holland & Knight, to fill one of the vacancies left by the resignation of GDC's top two executives days before the indictment. Smith is a former president of the American Bar Association. ``It's my hope that whatever harmed (GDC's) reputation in the past, my associates and I will correct,'' Smith said. Prosecutors alleged that the 35-year-old GDC, which has developed nine Florida communities, pitched its houses at inflated prices primarily to out-of-state buyers looking for retirement homes.
AP900416-0155 	X	Mario Vargas Llosa said Monday he will continue his presidential campaign and participate in an election runoff against Alberto Fujimori, a political neophyte now favored to win Peru's presidency. ``I will go to the second round fighting for the reforms that our country needs,'' the celebrated novelist said in a brief statement following a two-hour meeting with campaign strategists and leaders of his center-right Democratic Front coalition. Vargas Llosa said he had been ready to end his candidacy to save Peru the turmoil of two more months of election campaigning but was persuaded to continue for the good of this Andean nation, wracked by economic problems and a violent guerrilla uprising. He had been seriously considering dropping out of the runoff election after a disappointing showing in the April 8 opening round, according to key figures in his campaign. Fujimori, the descendent of Japanese immigrants and a political unknown when he started the campaign, ran a close second to Vargas Llosa and has emerged as a favorite in the runoff because he is expected to pick up the support of voters who favored leftist candidates. Vargas Llosa said a major factor in his decision was the constitutional requirement for a runoff if no candidate receives a majority of votes, effectively barring by law from withdrawing his name from the second round. That appeared to confirm reports he was participating in the runoff, expected to be held in late May or early June, to fulfill a legal requirement and was not enthusiastic about continuing his presidential campaign. Key supporters said the novelist had been considering dropping out because he was reportedly discouraged by the prospect that he would lose the runoff or, if he won, face the prospect of governing the country without control of Congress. Vargas Llosa, author of such celebrated books as ``The Green House,'' ``Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter'' and ``Converations in The Cathedral,'' went into seclusion with his family last Wednesday to mull over the decision on whether to continue the race. He said Monday night hoped the second round of campaigning would produce a ``clean debate'' on the best ways to solve Peru's problems. News commentators and political figures close to the writer had said earlier Monday they were convinced he would stay in the race. Some of Vargas Llosa's closest supporters have stressed the need for a runoff to ensure that Peru's next president can claim a popular mandate to deal with the country's problems. Due to the growing violence by the Shining Path guerrillas and the country's severe economic problems, Peru needs a president elected with majority support, Manuel d'Ornellas, editor of the Expreso newspaper and a close friend of the writer, said last week. ``The mandate that Fujimori would receive after Vargas Llosa's resignation could be questioned in the future, opening the doors to a possible military coup,'' d'Ornellas wrote in a column in his paper. Fujimori had been given little chance of making the second round a month ago. But a late surge propelled him into second place in the field of nine candidates. Vargas Llosa had hoped for a majority to avoid a second round but received only 32 percent of the votes. Fujimori, an agricultural engineer and former university rector running as an independent, received nearly 30 percent. Fujimori is favored in the runoff because Vargas Llosa is unlikely to receive support from the left-of-center ruling Aprista Party and Peru's leftist parties. Vargas Llosa harshly criticized the leftists' policies, while Fujimori conducted a conciliatory campaign. Fujimori avoided specifics in his campaign, stressing instead general goals like improved health care and revitalized industry. Analysts say Fujimori also benefited from voter concerns about the harsh economic austerity measures advocated by Varsa Llosa and suspicions about the old-line politicians in the Democratic Front. The Democratic Front also fell far short of gaining a majority in the congressional elections. Without support in Congress, Vargas Llosa would have great problems as president imposing his economic austerity program aimed at reviving Peru's moribund economy.
AP900614-0002 	X	The bodies of two climbers missing on Mount McKinley were found by rescue helicopters hovering near the 16,000-foot level of North America's tallest peak, a National Park Service spokesman said. The bodies of Michael Koshuta, 33, of Centreville, Va., and Stuart Jones, 29, of Washington state were spotted Tuesday afternoon, said spokesman John Quinley. No hometown was immediately available for Jones. The men were declared missing Tuesday, one day after a troubled Japanese climbing party that suffered the season's first fatality was airlifted off the mountain. There was no effort to remove the bodies from the 15,800-level because of the slope of the mountain and the threat of avalanche. Officials will decide later when it will be safe to return, Quinley said. The men were roped together and appeared to have died after a fall, the spokesman said. They were last sighted June 1 at the 16,100-foot level. Mount McKinley is 20,320 feet tall. Koshuta and Jones were experienced mountaineers who had climbed elsewhere in the Denali Range, Quinley said. There were no immediate clues as to what caused the accident or when it happened. The two climbers were scheduled to complete their descent four days ago. Three food caches they left along their planned route down the mountain hadn't been touched, Quinley said. Denali National Park rangers began looking for them Monday as rangers and two Army Chinook helicopters rescued three frostbitten, ill Japanese climbers and lowered the body of a fourth Japanese to 14,000 feet. The helicopters began looking for the missing Americans on Tuesday. The body of Hairoaki Ito, who died Sunday of altitude sickness, was expected to remain at 14,000 feet until friends could arrange for its removal or until an Army helicopter is called to the area on other business, Quinley said.
AP901206-0061 	X	The man accused of killing Rabbi Meir Kahane says he believes a Jewish man shot the militant Jewish leader to death, according to reports published today. State Supreme Court Justice Alvin Schlesinger set bail Wednesday at $300,000 for El Sayyid Nosair, 35, of Cliffside Park, N.J., during a hearing in Manhattan Criminal Court. Nosair is accused of shooting Kahane to death Nov. 5 as the rabbi finished speaking to a Jewish group at a midtown Manhattan hotel. He also is accused of wounding two other men and threatening a third while fleeing. He was stopped when a U.S. Postal Service police officer shot him in the neck a block from the hotel. New York Newsday and The New York Times reported today that Nosair gave a statement to police in which he said he believed a Jewish man did the shooting. Newsday said Nosair claimed the gun was placed next to him as he lay wounded in the street. Nosair also said in the statement that he went to see Kahane's lecture because he agreed with much of Kahane's anti-Arab rhetoric. Groups of Jews and Arabs nearly came to blows in a raucous confrontation outside the courtroom at Wednesday's hearing. ``No bail for murderers!'' yelled the Jews, and the Arabs shouted, ``God is great! Thanks be to God!'' as they met in the 13th-floor hallway. Nosair's lawyer, Michael Warren, was accompanied by an Egyptian lawyer, Abdel Halim Mandour, who said he was helping in the case. Nosair came to this country from Egypt in 1981. ``We will raise the bail as quickly as we can,'' Warren said. Warren had asked that bail be set at $100,000. He said Nosair had never been arrested before, has a wife and child and other relatives here, and was a responsible city employee. Nosair, a university-trained engineer, worked as a boiler tender. Assistant District Attorney William Greenbaum opposed bail, telling Schlesinger that the prosecution had witnesses, the murder weapon and ballistics evidence to tie the defendant to the crimes. Schlesinger scheduled another hearing for March 4.
AP880309-0390 	X	Unisys Corp., striving to show its commitment to standards in the computer industry, announced technology agreements Wednesday with American Telephone & Telegraph Co. and Sun Microsystems Inc. Unisys said the agreements would bolster its use of Unix, a computer operating system or ``traffic cop'' that was developed by AT&T and is gaining popularity among commercial computer users. In addition to working with AT&T to enhance Unix, Unisys said it was licensing a computer chip design from Sun Microsystems, known as Sparc, that would be used in future Unisys computers running Unix. Unisys, the world's third-largest computer company, said its strong support for Unix set it apart from its two larger rivals, International Business Machines Corp. and Digital Equipment Corp. The company said its business based on Unix doubled last year and amounts to more than $500 million a year. ``There's no doubt by now that Unix is going to be a very sizable portion of the information systems industry,'' Jan Lindelow, Unisys senior vice president for corporate marketing and services, said in an interview.
AP900713-0082 	X	A woman who has camped for two years in front of the motel where Martin Luther King Jr. died was ordered today to get out of the way of workmen building a museum. Chancery Court Judge George Lewis said he would send in sheriff's deputies at noon Saturday to move protester Jacqueline Smith if she defied his order. Ms. Smith promised to stay. ``Right now, I don't have no intention of moving no place,'' she said as she left Lewis' courtroom. Lewis denied her request to delay the hearing days while she tried to find a lawyer to represent her. He said she has had ample time to find a lawyer. Ms. Smith has been camped on a sidewalk in front of the Lorraine Motel, where she was a former employee and resident, since March 1988. She contends the motel should be used as housing for the homeless, not as a museum. King was assassinated at the Lorraine in 1968. The $9 million museum, called The National Civil Rights Center, is being built by the state, county and city governments. It is to open July 4, 1991. Lewis said Ms. Smith must carry on her protest somewhere other than the museum site. She has refused requests to move to a sidewalk across the street. ``The court has no alternative except to order her out of the way of the construction,'' Lewis said. His order came on a petition from Jameson-Vaccaro Construction Co. Inc., the primary contractor for the museum. Anthony Vaccaro, project manager, said Ms. Smith is camped in a spot that must be torn up for utility lines.
AP880906-0206 	X	Trading of stock-index futures has begun in Japan, theoretically giving investors a new opportunity to protect themselves if and when the big rally in the world's largest securities market ends. Although stock-index futures have been blamed by some critics for playing a significant role in the October stock market crash in the United States, there seems to be little concern the same thing could happen in Japan, where trading in index futures began Saturday.
AP901024-0243 	X	Avon Products Inc. said Wednesday its third quarter profit jumped 29 percent on slightly higher sales of its beauty goods. Avon earned $44.6 million, or 63 cents a share, in the three months ended Sept. 30 compared to $34.6 million, 46 cents a share, a year earlier., Sales rose 5.9 percent to $830.8 million from $785.1 million in the same quarter of 1989. For the first nine months of 1990, Avon's profit rose 34 percent to $107.3 million, $1.42 a share, compared with $80.3 million, 97 cents a share, a year ago. Nine-month sales jumped 3 percent to $2.33 billion from $2.27 billion in 1989. ``Our strong third quarter reflects continued profit improvements in the U.S. and the Americas, continued reduction in interest expense and a lower tax rate,'' said James E. President, president and chief executive officer of the New York-based company. Third-quarter sales in the company's international unit jumped 8 percent while those for Avon's domestic unit rose 2 percent. The company cut its debt during the quarter to $603.3 million, down from $1.09 billion at the same time last year and $838.1 million at the end of 1989. Avon is trying to sell half of its 60 percent interest in its Japanese subsidiary and should know soon if the transaction can be completed this year, Preston said.
AP901009-0030 	X	The dollar narrowed losses against the Japanese yen and ended slightly lower Tuesday in Tokyo following approval by the U.S. Senate of a deficit reduction plan. Share prices erased early gains and fell. The dollar ended the day at 129.95 yen, down 0.10 yen from Monday's 130.05-yen close. It opened lower at 129.65 yen and ranged between 128.95 yen and 130.35 yen. Tuesday's close was the lowest since Mar. 15, 1989, when the dollar closed at 129.88 yen. The 225-issue Nikkei Stock Average lost 134.89 points, or 0.57 percent, ending at 23,495.11. The index at late afternoon fell about 550 points from the day's high before narrowing the losses toward the end of the afternoon session, traders said. They said the index fell as market players, discouraged by the slowdown in the yen's surge against the dollar, started selling issues. Meanwhile, the dollar inched up in mixed trading after opening lower following a ``substantial amount'' of dollar selling in the Sydney market, which opens earlier than Tokyo, dealers said. They said the dollar turned upward in the late morning when the Bank of Japan made ``rate check'' phone calls to some Japanese banks. A rate check does not involve any market activity, but is a tactic the central bank uses to make banks voluntarily refrain from too much dollar selling. Also, reports that the U.S. Senate gave final approval to a $500 billion deficit-reduction plan helped support the dollar, said Yoshikazu Kuroda, a dealer with Fuji Bank. The Senate passed an emergency bill on a voice vote Monday night that would let the government open normally Tuesday morning and the House concurred, 362-3. The vote came just as dollar trading closed in Tokyo. The White House said President Bush would sign the legislation and that all federal employees should report to work as scheduled. But the dollar will remain weak despite temporary fluctuations, according to Toru Kanai, a foreign exchange analyst with New Japan Securities Co. ``There are no positive factors to encourage dollar buying now,'' he said. ``In addition to already serious worries over the U.S. economy, market players are heavily discouraged by the House's disapproval of the budget plan,'' Kanai said. Expectations that the Federal Reserve Board will lower interest rates are also depressing the dollar, dealers said.
AP900516-0060 	X	Clashes between government troops and Communist rebels in the northern and central Philippines have left 25 people dead, the military said today. Troops killed 11 rebels and suffered six dead in an encounter Monday with an undetermined number of Communist New People's Army guerrillas in the town of Claveria, 270 miles north of Manila, a military report said. A separate report said four soldiers and one rebel were killed Tuesday when a guerrilla band ambushed a military patrol on the central island of Negros, 300 miles south of Manila. In the Negros city of Bacolod, two rebels were killed in a shootout with troops Tuesday, one day after a soldier was gunned down by suspected rebels. The rebel army, which operates in most of the Philippines' 73 provinces, has been fighting for 21 years to establish a Marxist government in the country.
AP881203-0140 	X	Federal inspectors say they were impressed with the pilots at Continental Airlines and found no serious flaws with the management. The Federal Aviation Administration reported Friday on the Continental inspection, conducted in October, which did find some shortcomings in record-keeping and listed 142 specific items in which there were technical violations of federal regulations. Among the concerns raised by the FAA inspection team were that Continental pilots on numerous occasions did not get enough rest between flights, that records were incomplete and that manuals often were not up to date. The inspection by a special team of investigators was similar to those regularly scheduled at all major air carriers and not prompted by any specific incident or concern. Many of the 142 violations cited in the report were not considered to be major. For example, a flight attendant was found with no flashlight, ``fasten seat belt'' signs were found missing on the back of some aircraft seats, and an inspector observed two pilots eating their meals at the same time while at cruising altitude _ all technical violations of regulations. Among other items cited in the report were pilots who failed to record maintenance discrepancies in a log after items were fixed, a pilot not making proper altitude callouts during a landing and a crew failing to use an anti-ice mechanism while descending in possible icing conditions. But the team of FAA inspectors said that overall, ``team members were very impressed with the professionalism displayed by Continental cockpit and cabin crews while conducting en route inspections. Cockpit resource management was evident on all flights.'' The FAA report said the inspectors conducted 358 en route inspections at Continental beginning last Oct. 13. The FAA said Continental's management ``is adequate for the scope of the operation'' but that at times there are problems with the flow of information from upper and middle management to first-line supervisors and personnel. Flight and training manuals have not been brought up to date because of the introduction of a wide array of aircraft to the airline as it expanded and absorbed other air carriers, the FAA said. Some manuals were not accurate in the location of some emergency equipment such as fire extinguishers on certain aircraft, the report said. The inspection team said that Continental's training program ``is in compliance'' with regulations but it said training records did not always clearly reflect in summary sheets when a pilot's performance was unsatisfactory. In addition, inspectors were not able to adequately determine whether Continental pilots are in full compliance with flight and duty regulations because of poor record-keeping. ``On numerous occasions Continental Airlines flight crews received less than the (amount) of reduced rest required by Continental's operations manual pilot scheduling policy,'' said the report.
AP881226-0111 	X	Radioactive gas leaked from the Connecticut Yankee nuclear plant for 10 minutes Monday morning, but no one was injured and there was no danger to the public or employees, a spokeswoman said. The release of xenon-krypton occurred while technicians were taking a test sample, Northeast Utilities spokeswoman Barbara Luce. She said the accident did not affect operations at the plant. The spokeswoman said the release was measured as two-hundredths of a millirem, a unit used to measure radiation exposure. By comparison, she said, a diagnostic chest x-ray involves between 20 and 30 millirems of radiation. Luce also said that there are daily, planned releases of the gas of less than a millirem. The gas is produced during fission. The utility notifed state and government officials of the accident and were investigating, Luce said.
AP880811-0094 	X	Here are provisions of the drought relief bill that President Reagan signed today. The new law: _ Authorizes $3.9 billion for relief for drought-stricken farmers. _ Provides payments for farmers who lose more than 35 percent of their crops because of drought, hail, excessive moisture and related problems. _ Furnishes 65 percent of income lost from damage to the portion of the farmer's harvest exceeding the 35 percent level, and provides 90 percent of income lost from damage to the portion of the crop exceeding the 75 percent level. _ Combines two existing livestock feed assistance programs and streamlines machinery for making it available to farmers who otherwise would produce their own feed. _ Caps benefits at $100,000 for each individual. Bars benefits for those with $2 million or more a year in gross farm income. _ Requires that those who receive crop loss benefits must purchase federal crop insurance next year if their losses this year total more than 65 percent. _ Provides that farmers will not have to return income-support payments received in advance if their losses represent less than 35 percent of their crop. This helps producers whose payment level has been lowered by drought. _ Requires producers receiving disaster benefits on 35 percent to 100 percent of their crop to repay these advance income-support, or ``deficiency,'' payments but not until July 31, 1989. _ Blocks an increase of 50 cents for each 100 pounds of weight in the dairy price-support level that was scheduled for January. Increases the level by 50 cents a hundredweight for April, May and June of next year. _ Allows the Agriculture Department to sell corn to ethanol producers at reduced prices but limit participation to producers who use no more than 30 million bushels of ethanol annually. The secretary of agriculture is free not to implement the program.
AP900911-0002 	X	President Bush won resounding bipartisan praise Tuesday for a speech explaning his Persian Gulf policy as a leading Democrat warned Iraq's leader that if he starts a war, ``we will finish it.'' But Democrats showed less enthusiasm for portions of the president's address to lawmakers that emphasized the inability of congressional budget negotiators to reach a deal on the deficit. Moments after Bush assured Congress that Iraq's aggression against Kuwait would fail, House Majority Leader Dick Gephardt, D-Mo., responded in the official Democratic reaction: ``The president has asked for our support. He has it.'' Senate Republican leader Bob Dole, of Kansas, said, ``If there are any fence-sitters on the president's decisons in the Middle East, this speech ought to push them off the fence.'' Dole said Bush reminded lawmakers that Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein ``has sounded the wake-up call on the defense front. It's a little premature to be spending a peace dividend when we're deploying 140,000 troops on the sands of Saudi Arabia.'' Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., a frequent Bush critic, was just as effusive on the Persian Gulf policy, saying Congress ``has real respect for what has been achieved by the president in marshalling the international community.'' But Kennedy was among Democrats expressing some discord over Bush's comments that ``Most Americans are sick and tired of endless battles in the Congress and between the branches over budget matters.'' ``The use by the administration of this crisis in order to enhance the defense budget,'' Kennedy said, ``will not be tolerated or accepted.'' Rep. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., said, ``Democrats are quite angry'' about Bush's remarks on the budget, and added, ``If the president and the Republicans think that because of the Persian Gulf they are riding high and can get their way on a budget agreement, that's not going to happen. This speech didn't help on the budget.'' Bush was called ``a courageous leader'' by Sen. Richard Lugar, R-Ind., and Sen. Warren Rudman, R-N.H. said the president gave ``a very tough, steely speech. He just drew the line. It's important that the American people continually be reinformed and reinforced as to what the stakes are here.'' Rep. Larry Smith, D-Fla., a frequent critic of Republican policies, backed the president's prediction that Saddam Hussein's aggression would fail, saying he hopes Saddam ``gets the message and begins to act on it.'' But he said Bush could have could have acted more quickly in trying to get American civilians out of Kuwait and Iraq before they became hostages. That remark did not sit well with House Republican Whip Newt Gingrich, of Georgia, who countered, ``I don't know of any practical method by which we could have intervened once the invasion took place.'' House Armed Services Committee Chairman Les Aspin, D-Wis., said Bush broke little new ground, but ``essentially laid out in one document a very comprehensive argument for our position in the Gulf.'' Gephardt contrasted his party's backing for the administration with criticism of Germany and Japan for not doing enough to support Operation Desert Shield. While concentrating on the United States' response to Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, Gephardt also stumped for the Democratic position in crucial budget talks, reminded Americans of Bush's new willingness to raise taxes, and called for cuts in expensive defense programs. And he indirectly criticized Bush and his predecessor, Ronald Reagan, for the lack of an energy policy during the past decade. Gephardt said the United States was in the Persian Gulf ``not simply for oil, or to save emirs and kings, but to defend the most fundamental values of a more stable and decent world.'' ``Firmly, clearly and unequivocally, wemust say to (Iraqi President) Saddam Hussein: Let our people go. Let Kuwait go. And if you start a war, know that we will finish it.'' Declaring that the nation's vital interests are at stake, Gephardt said ``We cannot and will not permit the invading forces of a fanatical regime to control half of all the oil reserves which are the lifeblood of the world economy.'' Criticizing German and Japanese contributions so far for Operation Desert Shield, Gephardt noted that those countries, along with members of NATO, ``depend far more heavily on Mideast oil than we do.'' ``When countries like Egypt can stand beside us, when young Americans stand on front lines, only miles from the threat of poison gas, the least the Japanese and Germans can do is support us _ and not just with words; they must respond to our potential sacrifice of lives with at least a financial sacrifice of their own.'' Referring to closed door budget talks underway at Andrews Air Force Base, Gephardt said Democrats offered cuts in domestic programs but ``will never abandon the cause of working families.'' He contended Bush has given a ``commitment to raise taxes,'' and said the higher tax burden must be borne by wealthy Americans. Without specifically mentioning the Republican administrations of Bush and Ronald Reagan, Gephardt criticized the nation's free-market energy policies of the past decade. He said the nation ``must not be permanently faced with a choice between standing up against aggression or standing still in gas lines.'' He also pushed hard for proposed Democratic cuts in the defense budget, saying the planned ``Star Wars'' anti-missile system, the radar-evading B-2 bomber and the MX missile ``are costly systems designed for a Cold War that we have already won.''
AP900407-0127 	X	The United States last month secretly proposed a ban on some land-based missiles with multiple nuclear warheads but the Soviet Union said the plan was too limited, according to a published report. The New York Times reported in its Sunday editions that Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev responded to the proposal last week, complaining that it excluded submarine-based ballistic missiles. A letter containing Gorbachev's reply was delivered to President Bush Friday by Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze, the paper said, quoting administration officials it didn't name. The White House refused to confirm the offer or refusal, the Times said. The offer signals an attempt by Bush to put his stamp on arms reduction talks which thus far have followed proposals made during the Reagan Administration, the Times said. The rejection of the proposal caught the White House by surprise, the Times said, adding that Bush administration officials believe the Soviet Union's tougher position reflects a move by Soviet military officials to assert themselves. One unidentified White House official told the Times that Secretary of State James Baker III first presented the proposal to Shevardnadze last month in Namibia, where both were attending independence ceremonies. The proposal would ban mobile land-based missiles with multiple warheads, followed by the eventual elimination of all land-based missiles with multiple warheads. Administration officials said Moscow showed little interest in the first stage of the Bush plan, the Times reported. That first step, which could have been considered as part of the strategic arms treaty being negotiated this year, would have prevented the United States from deploying 10-warhead MX missiles on rail cars. It would have forced Moscow to remove its 10-warhead SS-24 missiles from railroad launchers and put them in stationary silos. The United States bases more of its ballistic missile warheads at sea, while the Soviet Union has most of its missiles on land.
AP900626-0016 	X	Attorney General Don Siegelman hoped for a strong turnout today to carry him past teacher-lobbyist Paul Hubbert in a Democratic runoff for the right to challenge Republican Gov. Guy Hunt. Hubbert led a six-candidate field in the June 5 primary with 32 percent of the vote against 25 percent for Siegelman, and remained the front-runner in weekend polls. The three-week runoff has been bruising. Siegelman tried to close the gap with negative ads, and the candidates accused each other of racist tactics. Whoever wins the Democrati nomination, once tantamount to winning the governor's office in Alabama, will face an uphill battle against Hunt. The preacher-farmer in 1986 became Alabama's first GOP governor in 112 years thanks to a split in Democratic ranks. He is favored in the polls over either Hubbert or Siegelman. An estimated 31 percent of Alabama's 2.4 million registered voters cast ballots in the primary, and analysts forecast lighter turnout today. Siegelman said if voters whose candidates lost in the primary returned to the polls today, it could spell victory for him. Hubbert, 54, has been executive secretary of the Alabama Education Association for 21 years. He built the teacher organization into one of the most influential forces at the Statehouse. Siegelman, 44, a former executive director of the Alabama Democratic Party, was state manager of George McGovern's 1972 presidential campaign. He won two terms as secretary of state and then the attorney general's office in 1986. Siegelman has depicted his opponent as a man opening classroom doors to child molesters, while Hubbert has exploited Siegelman's admission he smoked marijuana in college. Siegelman accused Hubbert of using ``racist code words'' in calling for a workfare program to replace welfare, while Hubbert's camp said a Siegelman ad warning about a black leader's influence amounted to ``racist tactics.'' The black leader is Joe Reed, the No. 2 man behind Hubbert at the teachers union.
AP900514-0052 	X	The United States and Iran have signed a $105 million settlement of some 3,000 financial claims, bringing the two countries one step closer to re-establishing economic relations, a U.S. official said today. The settlement deals primarily with so-called ``Small Claims'' for under $250,000 that stem from the 1979 Islamic revolution, said the official, speaking on condition of anonymity. It clears the way for the Iran-United States Claims Tribunal to deal with about $16 billion in major claims, whose resolution in turn could open the way to normalizing economic ties between the two nations, the official said. The settlement accord was signed late Sunday night or early this morning by Timothy Ramish, U.S. agent to the tribunal, and Iranian Agent Ali Nobari, according to the American official at the tribunal. The most recent settlement talks between U.S. and Iranian officials occurred shortly after the release of American hostages Frank Reed and Robert Polhill by pro-Iranian kidnappers in Lebanon. But U.S. and Iranian representatives to the tribunal have repeatedly stated the talks dealt only with financial arbitration and not with the six remaining Americans still in captivity in Lebanon. Last week a U.S. State Department official in Washington, who commented on condition of anonymity, said he could not predict whether resolving its financial disputes will result in the release of remaining hostages or was in any way related to the release of Polhill and Reed. The Small Claims package dealt primarily with Americans who left behind personal possessions or were owed salaries by Iranian companies when they fled Iran during the revolution. They were settled for a total of $50 million. The settlement also provided $55 million for repayment of a loan from the U.S. Agency for International Development. The tribunal was set up as part of the Algiers Accord of 1980, which resulted in freedom for the American hostages held by Iranian militants at the U.S. embassy in Tehran for 444 days. The tribunal has three Iranian, three American and three third-nation arbitrators. The biggest claim still before the tribunal, valued at up to $11 billion by Iran, is for military equipment which Iran ordered but did not receive as a result of the embargo imposed by the U.S. government. After the overthrow of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi in 1979, Iran canceled contracts for $9 billion worth of weaponry, including four destroyers under construction that were later taken over by the U.S. Navy. Remaining major claims, totaling about $5 billion, were filed by American oil companies for property and operations expropiated by the Iranian government, as well as for broken contracts.
AP900611-0026 	X	In giving political newcomer Alberto Fujimori a landslide presidential victory, the people of this economically crippled nation rejected the free-market shock therapy advocated by novelist Mario Vargas Llosa. Fujimori, an agronomist and the son of Japanese immigrants, captured Sunday's runoff by 13 to 19 points, according to exit polls conducted by independent firms. Official returns were not expected for at least three weeks because of poor communication with mountain and jungle regions. Vargas Llosa, a celebrated novelist, conceded defeat three hours after polls closed. He told supporters he wished Fujimori ``success in the difficult responsibility the Peruvian people have placed on him.'' He urged Peruvians to put the bitterly fought campaign behind them. Vargas Llosa had been the early favorite. He won the most votes in the first round of voting on April 8 _ but not the majority needed for election. Fujimori, a 51-year-old former university rector, ran a shoe-string campaign against Vargas Llosa's well-heeled Democratic Front coalition. A political unknown just months ago, Fujimori gained the support of Peru's poor, Protestant evangelists and leftists opposed to Vargas Llosa's plans to privatize state industries and lift price controls. He takes charge of a country where four in five people lack a steady job, annual inflation is 2,000 percent and violence related to the Maoist-inspired Shining Path insurgency has claimed more than 18,500 lives in the last decade. ``I realize it will be a titanic task,'' Fujimori said soberly Sunday night, addressing reporters. He invited all political parties to participate in his government in areas where agreements could be reached. Fujimori's critics accused him of ties to the Aprista Party of President Alan Garcia. Many people blame the populist policies of Garcia, who by law could not run for re-election, for Peru's desperate economic situation. Fujimori, who begins his five-year term on July 28 in a country weathering its worst economic crisis of the century, has said little about the makeup of his administration. He has said, however, that he would not appoint members of the Aprista Party to his Cabinet. Vargas Llosa, 54, had pledged harsh austerity measures to revive the economy while Fujimori advocated continued price controls and subsidies for basic goods and services. Fujimori said his government would stress economic development over military and police repression as the best way to fight both leftist guerrillas and cocaine trafficking. He did not indicate where the money would come from for economic development. The Peruvian treasury is $100 million in the red. Peru is the world's main source of coca leaf, the raw material for cocaine. The U.S. government is pressuring Peru to reduce its coca production, and has offered to send U.S. soldiers to train Peruvian troops in jungle warfare methods to fight guerrillas. Fujimori said he shared Vargas Llosa's view that Peru ``must be reinserted into the world financial community'' and said he would seek to renegotiate Peru's $20 billion foreign debt. Garcia suspended foreign debt payments early in his government and international lending agencies eventually cut off credit to Peru. Many attributed Vargas Llosa's loss to a multi-million dollar media campaign that angered people in this country of 22 million people where the average annual income is $900 and the minimum wage is $45 a month. Vargas Llosa is widely associated by the South American country's indigenous and mixed-race majority with the European-descended coastal elite. Thousands of campaign supporters paraded and celebrated early today outside the run-down headquarters of Fujimori's Change 90 party in downtown Lima. The independent polling firm Apoyo gave Fujimori 51.1 percent of the vote to 37.8 percent for Vargas Llosa, with 11.1 percent blank and null votes. POP, another independent polling firm, showed Fujimori with 56 percent and Vargas Llosa 36.5 percent. POP put blank and null votes at 7.5 percent. Nearly 10 million Peruvians were registered to vote, and the law requires them to cast ballots. As the polls opened Sunday, armored helicopters crisscrossed Lima's skies. Tanks and troop carriers patrolled the streets of the capital, home to about 7 million people. Little violence was reported around the country on Sunday despite threats by the Shining Path to disrupt the elections. At least 10 bombs exploded Sunday in Huancayo, a highland farming center 120 miles east of Lima. Police said that one, placed by guerrillas at a polling station, killed one person and wounded eight. In a separate attack, rebels shot and killed three brothers. Police said a note was found on one of the bodies that said, ``This is how informers die.'' Fujimori, the son of Japanese immigrants, said Sunday that he would seek improved relations with countries of the Pacific basin. ``I understand that in the land of my ancestors there is great interest in my election,'' he said.
AP901220-0122 	X	A publisher has refused to halt distribution of a directory of charitable organizations that the Council of Better Business Bureaus says contains ``stale and unreliable information'' about the council's evaluations of charities. The action came to light Thursday as the council issued an alert to its members and to users of its Philanthropic Advisory Service. The alert says the council did not review, approve or collaborate on the directory published by the Taft Group in Rockville, Md. The directory is called Charitable Organizations of the United States. It lists about 700 charities, with information including whether they claim to meet the council's standards for charitable solicitations. James H. McIlhenny, president of the council, said in the alert that the book contains 120 references to evaluations by the council and 11 of them are wrong. He said Steven J. Cole, vice president and senior counsel of the better business group, wrote to the directory publisher last month asking that further marketing and distribution be suspended pending discussion of the council's objections. The alert said that Taft responded earlier this month that it is ``willing to discuss modifications in future printings regarding specific errors which you may wish to bring to our attention. Nevertheless, we unequivocally reject any request to discontinue or inhibit full distribution and sale of the present edition.'' Marty Mattare, president of the Taft Group, declined comment except to say that the issues raised by the council were under discussion between the two groups. She said officers of the council and the publishing firm would be meeting ``in several weeks.'' The Council of Better Business Bureaus says it promotes ethical standards of business practices and protects consumers through voluntary self-regulation and monitoring activities. It is a private agency whose members include major businesses and better business bureaus in the United States and Canada. The Taft Group is a division of Gale Research Inc. of Detroit, whic is affiliated with the Thomson Information-Publishing Group of Stamford, Conn., and Toronto.
AP880917-0065 	X	The biggest athletic show on earth opened today with a record number of nearly 10,000 Olympic athletes from 160 countries marching under a massive security blanket and the jealous glare of communist North Korea. A colorful, 3{-hour spectacle mixing ancient Korean rituals with space-age technology kicked off 16 days of athletic competition at the Seoul Summer Games. The Games will provide a showcase for South Korea and produce the first all-out East-West gold rush since the 1976 Montreal Games. ``I'm glad the sky is so high and so blue,'' Yuk Hee-Jin, a 17-year-old Korean high school student, said on entering the stadium. ``I believe God is blessing my country for its years of hard work and preparations for the Olympic Games.'' After mutual boycotts of the 1980 Moscow and 1984 Los Angeles Games, Soviet bloc and Western athletes strode into Seoul's sun-washed Olympic Stadium in closed ranks to the tumultuous roar of a sellout crowd of 70,000. On the streets of downtown Seoul meanwhile, police arrested about a dozen radical students today for mounting an anti-Olympic protest, witnesses said. But no tear gas was fired to quell the protest and no injuries were reported. At least a billion others watched the Olympics via a 115-nation, worldwide television hookup. NBC alone paid $300 million for television rights to the Games, which cost the South Korean hosts $3.1 billion for stadiums, arenas and various support facilities, all of which were in place well before the start of the Games. By decree of the International Olympic Committee, North Korean television was blacked out. The communist nation had demanded to co-host the Games, but Olympic officials said only one nation can do so. Superlatives of the Seoul Games included: the most athletes (9,633), the most countries (20 more than at Los Angeles), the most gold medals (237) and the most venues (34 for 23 official sports and three demonstration sports). Communist North Korea sparked a mini-boycott that failed to sway its biggest political allies, including the Soviet Union and China. Of the countries following North Korea's boycott, only Cuba ranked as a sports power, while Ethiopia had hopes in the marathon. Both also boycotted the Los Angeles Games. The other no-shows _ Albania, the Seychelles, Madagascar and Nicaragua _ are not regarded as major sports nations. On the eve of the opening ceremonies, North Korea again displayed its wrath, saying in an official Communist Party statement that South Korean President Roh Tae-woo's call for a ``successful opening of the Olympics ... will help intensify the fascist rule, increase the danger of war and mean tolerating the schemes to perpetuate the division of the nation.'' Similar criticism of the Games has come from student radicals in the south, hundreds of whom staged scattered anti-Olympic, anti-government, and anti-U.S. demonstrations in Seoul as the Olympic torch arrived in the capital Friday. But none of the demonstrations came near the heavily guarded Olympic facilities or the torch procession. They also failed to arouse popular support. In one protest at the Kookmin University, about 300 students burned an effigy of President Reagan as well as a U.S. flag. But the anti-Americanism of the radical students found no echo in the Olympic stadium, where the crowd gave one of its loudest accolades to the U.S. team. For South Korea, the Games offered a worldwide showcase for its emergence from a developing country to an Asian industrial power whose exports include computers, automobiles and super tankers. To guard against internal or external threats to the Games, South Korea has marshalled a 120,000-man security force and placed its 650,000-member armed forces on heightened alert. Although not directly involved in Olympic security, the 40,000-member U.S. ground forces were placed on ``increased alert'' and a U.S. Navy carrier task force patrolled off the coast. South Korea has stressed the Games' theme of reconciliation and of ``Harmony and Progress'' _ a theme symbolized in the omnipresent South Korean flag at the center of which is a sunlike disc combining the opposing forces: the red Yin and the blue Yang. The strains of Beethoven's Choral Symphony, lauding the brotherhood of man, resounded through the stadium as the procession of Olympic athletes got underway. From his box which appeared to be enclosed in bullet-proof glass, Roh rose to declare the Games of the 24th Olympiad officially open. Iran, in line with its fundamental Islamic beliefs, was the only country in the procession to have a Korean man, not a woman, carry the signboard bearing its name. The first competitions scheduled for after the ceremony today were women's platform diving, soccer, men's volleyball, men's basketball, boxing and taekwondo, a demonstration sport at these Games. The first gold medal was to be awarded Sunday morning in the women's air-rifle competition. The United States, Soviet Union and East Germany were expected to garner the most medals. As a prelude to the Stadium ceremony today, a flotilla of nearly 400 boats sailed majestically on the nearby Han River, led by a dragon drum ship. The stadium extravaganza, involving 1,500 performers, blended taekwondo demonstrations, age-old Korean folk dances, electronic synthesizers, rock music and sky divers. It also provided the first suspense of the Games in the form of some white doves, who perched on the unlit Olympic torch basin as a platform carrying flame-bearers rose upwards. When the torch was lit, exploding into an inferno, the doves scattered, and it could not be determined if any were killed.
AP900721-0111 	X	The heat is on in the henhouse, but the flame is out. Chickens don't like to mate in high temperatures, when they also become sluggish eaters, says Frank Jones, a poultry expert at North Carolina State University. That means layers aren't laying as often as they do in lower temperatures and the birds that are supposed to gorge for slaughter are taking their time about it, said Jones and Holly Farms spokesman Gordon Miller. ``They're subject to a lot of the same stresses we are as humans,'' Jones said. ``That means there will be less mating. They don't really feel like eating.'' Turkeys react the same way to summer heat, which has been in the 90s in North Carolina, the nation's top turkey producer and the No. 4 chicken producer. The state is expected to sell more than $1.5 billion worth of poultry this year. Miller said consumers may end up getting burned. If the heat continues, fewer birds could be on the market in time for Thanksgiving and Christmas and fewer eggs could drive up prices. Perdue Farms Inc. spokesman Steve McCauley doesn't believe that higher prices are a given. He said Friday that since the heat is an annual summer ailment, most growers are prepared. ``Typically, if a flock is affected, it's because something went wrong _ fans broke, alarms didn't work,'' McCauley said. ``But one flock is a few thousand birds and Perdue processes 1.6 million a week, and that's Perdue alone, so the loss of a flock or two would never have a significant impact on prices,'' he said.
AP880325-0303 	X	The successful rehabilitation of First City Bancorporation of Texas Inc. is hindered by the apparent failure of some debt holders to accept current conditions for tendering their bonds, according to the head of a private group seeking to complete a $1.5 billion restructuring of the company. ``Each day of delay costs money,'' said A. Robert Abboud, a Chicago investor, in a speech to the French-American Chamber of Commerce on Wednesday. As of last week, 51 percent of First City's $225.8 million in bonds had been tendered, but the restructuring deal requires 90 percent participation by the close of business next Tuesday. ``It's not in their best interest to hang onto the bonds if they're going to crater the deal in the process,'' Abboud said. Caving into demands for better terms could set a negative precedent for similar transactions in the future, he said. Senior debt holders have been offered 45 cents on the dollar for their debt, while subordinated debt holders have been offered 35 cents. ``On a liquidation basis, their investment is worth zero,'' Abboud said, referring to the $100 million in subordinated debt. ``Once the preconditions are established, we have to stick to them.'' ``The professionals in the market should understand that (banking) is not a regular industry,'' Abboud said. ``The institutions that are so integral to our financial system should know this.'' He did not elaborate. Abboud is trying to restructure Houston-based First City using $970 million in assistance from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., $500 million infusion of capital raised privately by an investor group headed by Abboud and a spinoff of $1.79 billion in book value of poorly performing assets. First City, the state's fourth-largest bank holding company with 59 banks in Texas and one in South Dakota, grew quickly during the Texas oil boom, but was hammered by energy and real estate losses when oil prices plummeted. For 1987, the company posted a $1.1 billion loss. Abboud, who become chairman under the federal bailout plan, said he was optimistic a deal could be closed by March 31. Besides a successful tender, First City still needs to renegotiate unfavorable leases. First City shareholders already have voted to support the Abboud plan.
AP900724-0230 	X	Eagle-Picher Industries Inc. is seeking class-action status for 65,000 asbestos-related claims to avoid arguing the same issues repeatedly in individual cases. The company said Monday it has filed a request for class-action status with U.S. District Judge Jack B. Weinstein in New York, who last week was given authority to reorganize the Manville trust. The $3 billion trust, which was formed as part of the 1988 bankruptcy reorganization of Manville Corp., has run out of money to pay about 130,000 new claims. Manville was driven into bankruptcy court by thousands of lawsuits by victims of asbestos-related diseases. Eagle-Picher, which reported settling 7,800 asbestos claims in the first six months of the year, said it believes the Manville trust will have to participate in the settlements. A federal judge in Cleveland recently authorized creating a national class-action to settle more than 100,000 asbestos lawsuits crowding U.S. court dockets. Negotitations have begun on structuring the settlement mechanism. Eagle-Picher has been inundated with lawsuits by people who say their health suffered from exposure to an asbestos-based pipe sealer Eagle-Picher made for ships during World War II. Eagle-Picher said its own settlements for the first half of the year averaged $5,900. About 11,300 new plaint too ridiculous to comment on. ``Since when is it against the law for a senator to talk to one reporter?'' she asked, adding that ``no prearrangements'' were attached to Metzenbaum's comments. Meanwhile, the Times reported in today's editions that Thompson invested $100,000 with a federal regulator, Paul G. Heafy, who also was involved in Thompson's negotiations to buy an insolvent bank in Oklahoma. The newspaper reported that the investment, which was to buy distressed loans from federal regulators, did not violate conflict of interest laws, but Senate investigators wanted to look into the financing of the deal. Heafy is chief liquidator for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. in Oklahoma City. The Times said he and Thompson refused the Times' requests for interviews.
AP900810-0142 	X	Q: Do you think Americans need to be careful in travelling to others places than the Middle East? A: Well, I think they've always _ always been advised to be careful of travel, but I'm not prepared to say nobody should travel to any place in the Middle East. I'm not prepared to say that at all. Q: What about outside the Middle East? A: I'd be careful wherever you go, these days. Q: Speaking of trips, did you have any concern about your own trip to Kennebunkport, that you'll be able to stay on top of things while you're up here _ A: I think we're going to have a safe trip. Are you referring to the safety of the trip? Q: (Off mike.) A: No, I can easily stay here. We have a highly complex and highly efficient communications. I have some of my top advisers here. Others will be coming up there from time to time. I expect to see Jim Baker up there very soon. And I'm in very close _ I will be in very close touch with Pentagon officials or whoever's behind National Security Council right now, it'll be General Scowcroft. So I'm determined to _ that life goes on. I will have a busy schedule _ busier than I'd like to have had _ of contacts. In fact, I've got a list of calls that I'll be making over the next couple of days _ not all to the Middle East, incidentally. And so it'll be a little different than I'd hoped but I think I'm doing the right thing. I think the American people want to see life go on so long as they understand that their President and his top officials are on top of a troubled situation. So, that's the way I looked at it. And if I find it gets _ matters seem to be _ require my going back, it's an hour and a half to go back. So, I think we're in pretty good shape on that. Q: (Off mike.) A: Yeah. I mean, you've seen the telephone in my golf cart, or boat. Word of honor, well, I talked, you know _ where was it? We talked to _ where was it when we were out in the Fidelity last time? STAFF: (Off mike.) A: No, no. No, no, well, that was one, yeah, that was one. But, no, the other day we were out in _ and talked overseas, I believe it was, but in any event, I think it's _ I should reassure the American people that the communication is extraordinarily good. And if I found that I needed meetings with these top officials or with foreign officials and it would be more convenient to do it in Washington, it's very easy to go back. Q: Any concern _ (inaudible) _ Mr. President? A: No. I think the American people will support what I'm _ you mean on this? Q: You're going _ you're on a vacation at the same time as _ A: No, not at all. Q: Thank you. A: When I'm going to be working _ normally, you know, what I've said is, ``Look, if I'm on vacation, I want to have a vacation, and I don't want to try to kid the American people that I'm working _ play and play hard and then work like hell the rest of the time when you're in Washington.'' And I think I've done that. Go to work early in the morning, go home late at night. This one will be different because there are some tasks that I must undertake up here, but _ so, it'll be a little _ it'll be legitimately a combination of work and play, but I don't want to deceive the American people. Just tell them what you think and ask for their support. And I think people will understand that. So, that's the way _ that's the way I approach this. You know, what you don't want to do is appear to be held hostage in the White House to events. And I'm not going to do that. That's why we have all this sophisticated intelligence. So, I feel all right about it.
AP880418-0195 	X	NASA said Monday it will ask contractors this summer to submit proposals for a $1.2 billion program to design and build an advanced space shuttle booster rocket in a government-owned plant. Under the plan, the winning contractor will design, build and operate the plant. The rockets to be built there will be used by the shuttle program well into the next century. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration gets its shuttle rockets from a single private source, Morton Thiokol Inc., whose manufacturing facilities are situated in Utah. A government-owned plant will enable NASA to change contractors if it becomes dissatisfied. The request for proposals will be issued in June or July, NASA said, so the advanced solid rocket motor will be available for launching after Oct. 1, 1993. The new booster will enable the shuttle to carry 12,000 more pounds of cargo to orbit than the current 65,000 pounds. That increase will be equivalent to 2.4 extra shuttle missions a year on a 14-flight schedule. ``To achieve the level of process control and automation needed for high quality and reproducibility, NASA has concluded that a substantially new facility is required,'' the space agency announcement said. The overall cost for development and testing the booster is $1 bilion. The facilities will be budgeted at $200 million to $300 million. The site has not been announced, but NASA officials have told Congress the prime candidates are Bay St. Louis and Yellow Creek in Mississippi and an area near Cape Canaveral, Fla. NASA says the government plant must be accessible by rail and water. J.R. Thompson, director of the Marshall Space Flight Center in Alabama, said five firms have expressed an interest in making the rockets. United Technologies, Atlantic Research, Aerojet and Hercules were interested in operating a government-owned plant, he said, while Morton Thiokol wanted to improve its Utah facilities. Contractors bidding for the plant will be required to propose a private-financing option for the facility, both for a government site or a location of the contractor's choosing.
AP880711-0010 	X	Europe and the United States are beginning to adopt similar strategies for disposing of wastes, spurred by common recognition that there's not enough space to bury it all and burning causes too much pollution. ``For centuries, Western Europeans marveled at the luxury of available land in North America,'' says a report from the non-profit Institute for Local Self-Reliance. ``This luxury allowed for ready access to disposal sites for solid wastes, as well as for a casual disregard of the maintenance of soil fertility for agriculture.'' But as that luxury decreases, new methods are being tried. A company in Oakland, Calif., has long collected wine bottles, washed them and sold them back to vintners at less than the cost of new bottles. Now the practice is spreading to Michigan, Massachusetts and New York. Italy has passed a law that in 1991 will ban all packaging unless it can be recycled or will decompose naturally. The institute report favors recycling, but says little has been invested in it and that some professional planners are skeptical. Neil Seldman, one of the authors, nevertheless sees recycling as the path that must be followed. ``You'll have the bottle manufacturers asking for a national bottle bill because they don't want to have to deal with 50 different bottle bills, so I would say that within a few years we will have that,'' he predicted. State bottle bills typically require consumers to pay a small deposit which is refunded by shops when the empties are returned. The bills have been strongly opposed by business interests, especially container manufacturers. Brenda Platt, the institute's staff engineer, said that some communities, states and governments are now setting a three-tiered set of priorities for disposing of waste: _First, ``source reduction,'' or discouraging the use of materials that become waste. Seldman cited a proposal in Philadelphia that would put one tax on bottles, and a double tax on ``secondary packaging,'' the cardboard or plastic that goes around a six-pack. _``Source separation,'' the separate handling of different kinds of waste in both homes and businesses. Ms. Platt spoke approvingly of a ``three container'' system in some communities of West Germany, with a green container for one type of waste. ``If you don't put your recyclables in the green can, they'll take away the green container and give you maybe a black one, and you're labeled as the slob of the neighborhood,'' she said. ``Peer pressure can do a lot to encourage recycling.'' _Large-scale burning and burial of waste only as a last resort. ``Iowa, New York, the Netherlands, Sweden and Italy have endorsed this hierarchy,'' she said. The report says the average American produces about 1,300 pounds of waste annually, compared with a little over 1,100 pounds for the average West German. The U.S. figure is for 1986, the German figure for 1984. Disposal methods vary widely. The United States burns only about 5 percent of its waste, while Switzerland burns more than 60 percent. The United States still can bury nearly 85 percent, while mountainous Switzerland can find space for less than 20 percent. Switzerland recycles over 20 percent or uses it as compost for farmers, twice the proportion in the United States. The institute is a research organization that serves local governments, citizen groups and industry. The West German government's Marshall Fund of the United States financed the study.
AP901010-0181 	X	Junk bond financier Michael Milken probably won't get a chance to face his main accuser, Ivan Boesky, before sentencing. Federal prosecutors said Tuesday they do not plan to call the inside trader to testify against Milken at a pre-sentencing hearing. Assistant U.S. Attorney John Carroll also said the government was dropping one of four alleged illegal transactions against Milken on which it planned to present evidence and testimony at the planned two-week hearing. The move not to include Boesky in the unusual hearing, scheduled to begin Thursday, was not a great surprise. Boesky was the main source of information against Milken but also was susceptible to attack from defense lawyers. Milken has pleaded guilty to six felony counts and has agreed to pay $600 million in penalties in connection with the biggest government probe of Wall Street fraud. He faces up to 28 years in prison when sentenced by U.S. District Judge Kimba Wood. Sentencing was delayed for the hearing into uncharged allegations against Milken raised by the government in its lengthy pre-sentencing memorandum. Wood has said the hearing is designed to shed light on Milken's character. In a telephone conference with the judge and Milken's attorneys, Carroll said the government was unlikely to call Boesky to the witness stand. But they did not rule out the possibility altogether, he said. Carroll also said to save time the government was dropping from its presentation an inside trading allegation involving Milken and Boesky in securities of MGM-UA Entertainment Co. Boesky also was a central player in two of the other transactions being aired - stock manipulation charges in Wickes Cos. securities in 1985 and a web of alleged wrongdoing in the 1985 takeover of Storer Communications Inc. The third alleges insider trading in Caesar's World Inc. securities in 1983. The Caesar's and Storer transactions involve new charges against Milken not contained in the government's original 98-count indictment last year or earlier Securities and Exchange Commission charges. Wood has given each side a total of 20 hours to present eestimony and cross-examine witnesses at the hearing. The burden of proof on the government is lower than at a trial, though. Boesky, who was sentenced to three years in prison and paid $100 million in penalties to settle insider trading charges, is widely reviled on Wall Street and would have given Milken attorney Arthur Liman a broad target to discredit. Boesky was not regarded as a successful witness when he testified earlier this year against former stock speculator John A. Mulheren Jr. Boesky was perceived as combative on the stand and was forced to admit a litany of serious lawbreaking. Instead, Carroll said the government's first three witnesses on the Wickes transaction would be former Boesky head trader Michael Davidoff and former Drexel employees Cary Maultasch and Peter Gardiner, who worked under Milken in Drexel's Beverly Hills, Calif., high-yield bond department. Carroll said the Wickes testimony would be followed by testimony on Storer and then Caesar's. The prosecutor also disclosed that former Drexel trader James Dahl and mutual fund manager Prescott Crocker were among about 10 planned witnesses on the Caesar's deal. The witnesses for the Storer transactions were not disclosed. Prosecutors last week gave defense lawyers a list of 17 possible witnesses and Wood has ordered the government to say in what order it would call them, to help the defense prepare its case. The witness list also includes former Drexel chairman Frederick Joseph. Liman indicated during the conference call that Milken would be present at the hearing in Manhattan federal court.
AP881030-0048 	X	The plight of whales trapped by Arctic Ocean ice got worldwide attention, and the part played in their rescue by two Soviet icebreakers got the special attention of members of a third grade class. ``I feel sorry for every living creature that has to go through this,'' said Lisa DeLack, a third-grader at Centennial Elementary School in Loveland. Lisa convinced her teacher and school principal that the Soviets deserved some thanks for their help in freeing two California gray whales off the north coast of Alaska. A third whale disappeared and was presumed dead. ``I saw the whales and the Russians helping and I thought it was very nice of them to do it,'' Lisa said. So she and her classmates penned their appreciation on blue-lined school paper, some illustrated with drawings of whales. Their letters were sealed in an envelope and mailed to Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev in Moscow. Centennial principal Sam Simonetta says it's natural for the children to respond to animals, be they pets or wild creatures thousands of miles away. `They like them and they're concerned about them,'' Simonetta said. ``When someone came in and was willing to help our country, it made these kids feel real good about it,'' he said.
AP901112-0047 	X	Iraq has said it might attend a proposed Arab summit aimed at avoiding war in the Persian Gulf, but only if the meeting also deals with the Arab-Israeli dispute. King Hassan of Morocco proposed the emergency summit on Sunday as a ``last chance'' for peace. There were new signs, meanwhile, of cracks in the alliance against Iraq. Egypt's President Hosni Mubarak was quoted today as saying that Egyptian soldiers will not enter Iraq even if U.S. and other troops attack. He said his troops could, however, enter Kuwait as a peacekeeping force. At the same time, the European Community said it would urge Baghdad to accept a U.N.-brokered solution concerning the hundreds of Westerners held by Iraq. The EC wants countries negotiating hostage deals with Iraq to work together and thereby prevent tensions among nations in the anti-Iraq alliance. Meanwhile, an Arab summit attended by Iraq appeared possible. On Sunday, Iraq's ruling Revolutionary Command Council said Iraq would attend the summit under three conditions. Those were that Baghdad be consulted in advance on the agenda, that the timing and location be chosen so Saddam could attend, and that the agenda include not just the gulf crisis but all Middle East issues - including the Palestinian question. The council, led by Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, also suggested it would not allow certain topics to be discussed. It did not specify which ones. ``The proposed summit should not be part of efforts to prepare the political theater as a cover for American aggression against Iraq and the Arab nation,'' the statement said. In Tunis, the Palestine Liberation Organization issued a statement saying it agreed with King Hassan's initiaive. Saddam has long demanded that a solution to the crisis be linked to the Palestinian issue. He made the offer shortly after his Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait. King Hassan suggested that the summit be held in Rabat, the Morrocan capital, in a week. But he said he would attend a summit wherever it might be held. Morocco, outspoken among Arab nations in condemning the Iraqi invasion, has committed more than 1,200 soldiers to the U.S.-led multinational force based in Saudi Arabia. In an interview with British television, Saddam again urged dialogue on the crisis and said he did not believe the world was united against him. The major powers and ``a number of countries'' are lined up against Baghdad, Saddam acknowledged. ``But to say that the world is unified against Iraq is indeed not a correct thing to say. ``In the statements of the U.S. and Britain, they themselves are voicing their concern that the unity - so-called unity against Iraq - is perhaps ... suffering from a split,'' Saddam said. Secretary of State James A. Baker III received assurances from key allies last week that they will accept nothing short of an unconditional Iraqi pullout. However, officials said China, France and the Soviet Union reportedly expressed concern that Washington might attack Iraqi forces without giving the U.N.-ordered trade embargo enough of a chance. There were also signs of cracks in the Arab alliance against Iraq. When Baker visited Cairo last week, a senior U.S. official said the United States is confident that Egypt would fight alongside U.S. forces if war broke out. But asked by his party's newspaper, Mayo, whether Egypt would send troops to Iraq following a U.S.-led attack, Mubarak said: ``No, we have nothing to do with Iraq.'' But if the anti-Iraq allies invaded Kuwait, he said, ``We do not mind at all entering Kuwait as peacekeeping forces ... although I do not hope for this day at all.'' In Washington, the powerful chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee said the Bush administration must have the support of the American people if the nation is to go to war with Iraq. ``The last thing we need is to have a war over there, a bloody war, and have American boys being sent and brought back in body bags and yet not have the American people behind them,'' said Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga. ``We've gone that route one time. We don't need to do it again.'' In Brussels, meanwhile, European Community foreign ministers said they would step up pressure on Iraq to open talks with a U.N. envoy on the fate of hundreds of Westerners that Baghdad is holding. They said they would encourage about 40 nations to pressure Sadam into accepting mediation by such an envoy. In other developments: -Foreign Minister Qian Qichen of China met today with Saddam in Baghdad. A Chinese diplomat said talks focused on how to achieve a peaceful solution to the gulf crisis. -In Tokyo, Foreign leaders gathered for Emperor Akihito's enthronement were pessimistic about a peaceful solution to the gulf crisis, an aide to Vice President Dan Quayle said on condition of anonymity.
AP901211-0016 	X	The Navy's A-12 stealth aircraft program, already under attack for cost overruns and schedule delays, now is the focus of a criminal probe, the Defense Department says. ``The U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri presently is conducting and directing a criminal investigation into the overpayment of progress payments,'' the Pentagon's inspector general, Susan Crawford, said Monday. Crawford made the disclosure at a House Armed Services Committee hearing on the attack plane, designed to replace the Navy's aging fleet of A-6 Intruders aboard aircraft carriers starting in 1995. ``Both the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, which works for me, and the Naval Investigative Service are working in a joint fashion under the direction of the U.S. attorney,'' she said. The plane's contractors, McDonnell Douglas Corp. and General Dynamics Corp., are based in St. Louis. The Navy announced last week that it was removing three top overseers of the A-12 program, including two admirals, for failing to disclose serious flaws in the aircraft's development. Five weeks after Defense Secretary Dick Cheney told Congress in April that the program was on track, it was disclosed that the A-12 was 18 months behind schedule and more than $1 billion over the planned $4.7 billion cost. Navy Secretary H. Lawrence Garrett told Cheney last week that he was forcing Vice Adm. Richard C. Gentz, commander of the Naval Air Systems Command, to retire by Feb. 1. Garrett also said he was reassigning Rear Adm. John F. Calvert, the program executive officer for tactical aircraft programs, and Capt. Lawrence S. Elberfeld, A-12 program manager, and writing each a letter of censure. But Garrett said he would not stop Elberfeld's scheduled promotion to rear admiral. Garrett, testifying before the House panel Monday, faced criticism for that decision from Rep. Andy Ireland, R-Fla. ``I wonder what message you send when you include censure and a promotion as well,'' Ireland asked. ``The message is already clear,'' Garrett responded. ``That you can be promoted,'' Ireland interrupted. The Navy secretary argued that the promotion of Elberfeld was based on his 20 years of service and the censure even with the promotion would be ``embarrassing and debilitating'' to Elberfeld's future career. An internal Navy report and the Pentagon inspector general's investigation indicated last week that the government did not sufficiently challenge overly optimistic cost and schedule estimates of the contractors. The Navy report said McDonnell Douglas and General Dynamics contract officials failed to tell the Navy of cost and schedule problems. Garrett testified that briefings from the Navy's management team on the A-12 program ``gave no indication of risk that the contract would not be completed within its ceiling price, nor any risk that first flight and the follow-on test program would not be achieved.'' The Navy secretary blamed ``human errors in judgment'' for problems with the aircraft that were never reported. He added that although the current procurement system works, individuals ``find it very hard to push bad news up to the top.''
AP881005-0074 	X	A new series of mistakes by air traffic controllers at O'Hare International Airport has plagued one of the world's busiest airports, which already is the subject of a federal safety investigation, officials say. Controllers at the airport made one error Sunday and two Friday, bringing the number of recorded errors at O'Hare this year to 29, officials said Tuesday. By comparison, Atlanta's Hartsfield International Airport has had six errors this year, and Washington's National Airport two. In one incident Friday, two Air Wisconsin jets came near each other when a controller apparently mistakenly gave one of them an order to descend from 14,000 feet to 11,000 feet, a Federal Aviation Administration spokesman said. In the day's other incident, an American Airlines jet and a Delta Air Lines jet came within 400 feet vertically and a mile horizontally when the pilot of the American apparently failed to repeat an order to reduce speed and the controller did not seek confirmation, the Chicago Tribune reported today. On Sunday, two United Airlines jets came within 500 feet of each other horizontally after the pilot of one plane apparently followed an order intended for the other, the newspaper said. The FAA requires airplanes in the area to be separated a minimum of three miles horizontally or 1,000 feet vertically. The incidents occurred just two months after the National Transportation Safety Board issued a report saying that chronic understaffing, mandatory overtime, outdated equipment and inadequate training had contributed to mistakes at O'Hare. And now NTSB officials are worried that the trend has not been reversed, said regional director Carl Dinwiddie. The FAA, which has 90 days to respond to the NTSB report, has not yet replied, said an NTSB spokesman in Washington. Both agencies are investigating the recent errors. Joe Bellino, regional representative of the National Air Traffic Controllers Association, said O'Hare's radar room on Friday was ``a zoo.'' With Friday's 3,842 takeoffs and landings _ 11 below the record set the day before _ there should have been 18 journeyman controllers and several ``developmental'' controllers on duty. But Bellino said there were only 14 controllers in both categories, and the problem was made worse when the controllers who made the errors were temporarily relieved of their duties, giving those who remained even more responsibilities. ``We had airplanes all over the sky,'' Bellino said. ``We were buried all day long.'' The FAA could not immediately say how many controllers were on duty Friday, but spokesman Donald Zochert said the total number of controllers working at the airport has risen from 87 last year to 94 as of Sept. 1. There are now six new developmental controllers and one new journeyman.
AP900925-0203 	X	Women reporters covering the U.S. military buildup in male-dominated Saudi Arabia exulted when the invitation came to join female soldiers in their exercise classes. Exclusive! We gloated. But the chance to swim and sweat with the U.S. women in uniform nearly backfired when the three reporters - myself included - walked through the front door of the $80 million gymnasium at a Saudi air base. Several Saudi custodians, all men, leapt up and followed us to the registration desk, complaining loudly that we had violated custom by using the front entrance. Women, they said, must enter through the rear door. Our timing, it appeared, couldn't have been worse: we had committed this faux pas on a Friday - Islam's holy day - during Moslem prayer time. The Saudis were not the only ones who were annoyed. `You nearly ruined it for all of us,'' one angry Air Force nurse told the sheepish reporters. ``They almost kicked us out.'' The military women had fought hard for the privilege of using the gym three times a week, and they dreaded the idea of losing it. The culture clash was an example of the hidden challenges that American women encountered in Saudi Arabia, a country where females don't vote, don't drive, don't go out in public without covering their faces and heads with veils, don't socialize in meeting places and rarely hold jobs that bring them in contact with the general public. Most Saudi women seem to accept the social structure that is based on the laws of Islam. They say they are put on a pedestal in their homes and treated generously by their men. The female reporters - writers, television and radio correspondents, photographers and television camera crews - have been treated fairly by both Saudi and American officials in terms of access to events and opportunities to cover the U.S.-led military deployment. We have slept on cots in the desert with the 82nd Airborne out of Fort Bragg, N.C. We have visited Egyptian paratroopers near the Saudi-Kuwaiti border; interviewed the powerful Saudi petroleum minister; and toured the strategic petroleum refinery at Ras Tanura. In deference to Saudi custom, we cover our arms, wear longer skirts and keep bare skin to a minimum. But none of us wear the black cloaks known as abayas or head coverings. The heat argues against wearing stockings. We act generally as we do in the United States: eating in restaurants, sipping coffee in the hotel lobbies. But we remain oddities on the social scene, the only women attending an Arabian nights dinner under a big tent hosted by Saudi prince, for example. We were warned about the muttawa, the so-called religious police who enforce the Islamic dress code and insist conservative standards are upheld. But an informal survey indicated none of the reporters has been accosted by the muttawa, who have the power to make arrests. On the streets or in the souks (markets), our small cadre of female reporters has grown accustomed to sares from curious Saudis, but the incredulous looks did not interfere with work. The major complaint - and the biggest frustration - is the ban on driving. We must hire taxis, drivers or rely on male colleagues to ferry us around, an expensive inconvenience in a country with a modern system of interstate highways. The U.S. Embassy also advised women not to sit next to a man to whom she was not married. In one case, I drove to a remote post on the Saudi-Kuwaiti border with a male colleague, 300 miles from the coastal city of Dhahran, to meet with the governor of the province. The trip would have been impossible without a male escort. Air travel was potentially a problem because Saudi custom dictates women must be accompanied by a male relative. Expatriate women have to obtain a letter approving their travel from their sponsoring company. Airports have check-in lines designated for ``males'' and ``families.'' Saudi officials seemed to ignore the rules for the foreign reporters. I was never asked about my marital status, for instance, when I flew to Riyadh, the Saudi capital, in the company of an American male reporter. Female reporters benefit from the famed Saudi hospitality and generosity. When one reporter mentioned she had lost a contact lens, her host insisted on having his driver take her the next day to the clinic for a replacement. At Prince Mohammed Bin Fahd's daily Majlis - a combination of a town meeting and a magistrate's court - Saudi citizens ask the governor of the Eastern Province to resolve problems ranging from land disputes to homelessness. After meeting the prince, I jokingly told himII had some problems he could solve. Pressed on what theywere, I assured him I was only kidding. That night, I received a call from the prince's worried press officer. ``You mentioned you had some problems and the prince wanted to know if there was anything he could do,'' the press officer said. ``A car to take you shopping? Some interviews? Anything?'' --- EDITOR'S NOTE - Joan Mower, a Washington reporter for The Associated Press, reported from Saudi Arabia for four weeks.
AP900209-0028 	X	To most, Carolyn Warmus is a bright, energetic schoolteacher. To police, she is an obsessed woman who pumped nine shots into her lover's wife, then met the man for drinks and sex. It took a year of intense legwork by two detectives to put together the case that made a murder suspect out of the 26-year-old computer science teacher and insurance heiress. Warmus was charged with second-degree murder Monday. Police said she shot Betty Jeanne Solomon, 40, nine times on Jan. 15, 1989, then drove to a local hotel to meet her lover, fellow schoolteacher Paul Solomon, for drinks and a sexual tryst in her car. Her attorney, Charles Fiore, maintains his client is innocent. He said Thursday that she passed a polygraph test taken on the advice of her family attorney five days after the slaying. Warmus was not the initial suspect in the killing. Solomon was. ``You can compare it to a large puzzle with many, many pieces,'' said Lt. Cornelius Sullivan, head of detectives in Greenburgh, a New York City suburb near White Plains. Police would not say when their focus shifted to Warmus, daughter of a wealthy Michigan insurance executive, but a vacation trip to Puerto Rico five months after the killing may have been key in highlighting Warmus' alleged obsession with the dead woman's husband. Police said Solomon, 39, told investigators that Warmus followed him and a friend, Barbara Ballor, 28, to Puerto Rico. Once there, they said, she called a member of Ballor's family pretending to be a police officer and made disparaging comments about Solomon in an apparent effort to break the couple up. Police traced the call back to Warmus. Investigators then focused on other telephone records. The paper trail led them to Vincent Parco, a private investigator in New York City who told police he sold Warmus a silencer and a .25-caliber handgun, the same type of weapon used to kill Mrs. Solomon. Police say they linked the weapon that Parco sold to the killing through ballistics evidence, but did not elaborate. The weapon has not been recovered. On Thursday, Parco's New York City pistol permit was suspended and Parco agreed to give police his weapons, said city police spokesman Detective Joseph McConville. Law enforcement sources said Warmus knew Parco because she had hired him before to investigate an ex-boyfriend, a married bartender who lived in New Jersey. Police said Warmus, who lives in a high-rise on Manhattan's East Side, told Parco she needed the gun for protection, but Parco's ex-partner, Gabe Laura, told the New York Post she offered him three different reasons. ``We figured her for a flake,'' Laura said, adding, ``We told her to get us some proof about what she was saying and sent her away.'' Warmus and Solomon had been having an affair for a year, according to an indictment unsealed Monday. They met in 1987 at an elementary school in Greenburgh. At the time of Mrs. Solomon's murder, police said, Warmus wanted to intensify the relationship; Solomon wanted to cool things off. Investigators said he ended the affair after his wife's death. In her statement to police, Warmus said she called Solomon at home hours before the murder and they talked for 45 minutes about everything from his 15-year-old daughter Kristan's basketball team to a bar mitzvah he attended. They agreed to meet for drinks at a Yonkers hotel bar at 7:30 p.m. Mrs. Solomon was killed between 7 p.m. and 7:30 p.m., police said, adding that Warmus knew Mrs. Solomon would be home alone. Warmus told detectives they left the bar at 10:30 p.m., went out to her car in the parking lot and had sex before leaving each other about 11:30 p.m. Her attorney said Warmus frequently had dinner with the Solomon family at their home and that neighbors knew both her and her car. ``It would be a pretty good trick for her to knock on the door, kill her ... and leave and not be seen or have her car seen,'' Fiore said. Warmus' father is president of American Way Life Insurance Co. in Southfield, Mich., whose assets reportedly are about $150 million. She grew up in Birmingham, Mich.
AP880521-0006 	X	Ticket scalpers, familiar outside rock concerts and sports events, have invaded unlikely turf: a dance for middle-school students. The dance scheduled for Friday night was canceled after the Vernon Junior Women's Club discovered that the $3 tickets were being sold for as much as $10 apiece by student scalpers. The league sponsors dances with the Parks and Recreation Department. A limited number of tickets are sold because the dances are held in a gym that can accommodate only 250 people. There are about 1,100 middle-school students in town. That situation led to students' duplicating tickets and now selling them at inflated prices, club President Peggy Jackle said. She said she hopes the cancellation of the dance will serve as notice to the scalpers that the future of the dances depends on their conduct.
AP900624-0032 	X	Thousands of relics left by a lost Indian tribe in the ruins of their famed cliff houses were methodically looted before the turn of the century. Now a band of ``reverse archaeologists'' wants to bring them home. Before Congress outlawed the practice in 1905, collecting baskets, pots, tools and other everyday household items from Anasazi Indian ruins was a thrilling romp through history for explorers hired by East Coast collectors. Like the swashbuckling treasure hunter in the ``Indiana Jones'' movies, they took the ancient ruins of a culture that vanished before Europeans reached the New World. Most of the loot eventually found its way into museum display cases. Large collections are housed at the American Museum of Natural History in New York and the Museum of the American Indian in New York, among others. But a group of volunteer researchers is eager to bring them home to the Four Corners area of the Southwest where the Anasazi pioneered farming and built dense communities hundreds of feet high in scenic cliffsides. Julia Johnson, the director of the volunteer Wetherill-Grand Gulch researchers, decried the looting at a recent symposium on the early Anasazis, known as the Basketmakers, in Blanding, Utah. The group wants to reverse the actions of 1890s explorers and return the artifacts to museums as close to the ruins from which they were taken as possible. To help achieve that and to help scientists study the Anasazi, 5,000 pages of documents and 500 photographs have been compiled on the museum artifacts to trace their origins. Since many of the early-day explorers kept meticulous diaries, ``it's possible in some cases to identify exactly which hole something came out of,'' said Fred Blackburn, a biologist who joined the ``reverse archaeologists.'' Blackburn, 40, and his colleagues crawl through Grand Gulch in Utah, about 100 miles west of Cortez, searching for signatures the explorers carved into cliff walls. By matching the individual artifacts on display in Eastern museums with the diaries, Blackburn's group can supply a research base for scientists studying the Basketmaker era of the Anasazi, he said. The ruins were virtually cleared out and their treasures carted off by the time Congress forbade the practice in 1905, Blackburn said. ``And the expeditions weren't real researchers,'' said Blackburn, whose wife, Victoria Atkins, is an archaeologist. ``There's so much we don't know about the Basketmakers.'' The Basketmaker Anasazis lived in the area from about the time of Christ until the year 700, Blackburn said. They are believed to be the farming pioneers of the tribe that built a thriving civiliation in the famous cliff houses of Mesa Verde National Park. Their Pueblo Anasazi descendants disappeared from the area, apparently driven by a long drought, in about 1300. ``We're putting this together so researchers can go back and find out what the origins of these people were, their customs, where they came from and where they went,'' Blackburn said. He started with the diary of Charles Cary Graham, who with Charles McLoyd began excavating Grand Gulch in 1890. The pair met Richard Wetherill and Charlie Mason just as the latter two were riding out after discovering the landmark Balcony House at Mesa Verde. Wetherill, a nearby rancher and amateur archaeologist, hired Graham and McLoyd to bring artifacts from Grand Gulch to the local historical society. The collection later ended up at the Field Museum in Chicago. As news of the rich ruins spread, other expeditions followed, explorers erasing clues to the mysterious Anasazi's past in their diligence to gather prized artifacts. One likely site for any relics returned to the region would be the Anasazi Heritage Center in Dolores, a town north of Cortez. Initial efforts will try to arrange artifact loans, with the eventual goal of establishing permanent exhibits, volunteers said. Fund-raising is under way to pay for lobbying visits to museums that house large Anasazi collections. Blackburn, who specializes in studies of Bighorn sheep, says his strong ties to the Four Corners area prompted his ``reverse archaeology'' work. He's especially fascinated with evidence of the Anasazis ability to co-exist with the sheep that used to roam the area in large numbers. The fledgling ``reverse archaeolgist'' movement _ looking for artifacts in museums to bring them back to historic sites, rather than the other way around _could provide clues to true archaeologists enabling them to unravel the mystery surrounding the demise of the Anasazi, he said. ``Archaeology is really pretty new here in southwest Colorado,'' he said. ``And there hasn't been much done on the Basketmakers. ``There are a lot of parallels between the Anasazi and what we have today. Overpopulation and drought were a major problem for them and many archaeologists think that's what drove them out of here. Overpopulation and drought are big problems for us, too.''
AP900121-0064 	X	Two opposition leaders expelled from Haiti were welcomed Sunday by fellow exiles in Miami, where they asked for support in ridding their Caribbean homeland of the government of Lt. Gen. Prosper Avril. Dr. Louis Roy, co-author of Haiti's 1987 constitution, arrived on a noon flight after being thrown out of his country for the second time in 30 years. ``I was arrested yesterday afternoon and put in jail,'' the 74-year-old civil-rights leader said after arriving at Miami International Airport. ``This morning, I was put on a Miami flight. They didn't even tell my why I was arrested.'' Asked if he was physically abused, he said ``Yes, I was beaten ... in the police department.'' Avril, who took power in a September 1988 soldiers' revolt that ousted military leader Lt. Gen. Henri Namphy, has promised to hand over power after elections this year. Avril declared a state of emergency Saturday and arrested dozens of critics who expressed doubts about his commitment to democracy. Roy, founder of the Haitian Red Cross, was first banished in 1957, when Francois ``Papa Doc'' Duvalier was in power. Also addressing reporters Sunday was conservative leader Hubert de Ronceray, 65, who was expelled Saturday. He said that the killing that led Avril to declare a state of siege was an assassination meant for him. De Ronceray said Avril's armed forces were aiming for what they thought was his car when they killed an army colonel driving a similar auto near de Ronceray's home. He said his political colleagues had warned him that Avril wanted him ``destroyed,'' so he changed his Friday schedule. ``They made a mistake and killed the colonel,'' he said. ``Thirty minutes after he was killed, the guards arrived for me.'' The former vice minister of education under Jean-Claude ``Baby Doc'' Duvalier said he was then arrested, beaten and thrown in jail. Once there, he said, guards slapped him, beat him with sticks and gun butts and even put a cigarette in his eye, which was noticeably red. ``It is clear the United States must help Haiti to stop Mr. Avril,'' he said in a news conference and rally at the Haitian-American Republican Council of Dade County. De Ronceray said his party would refuse to participate in the upcoming elections in Haiti because of Avril's military regime, which he said only ``promised elections to get help from foreign countries.'' ``There's no possiblity of democracy with Mr. Avril,'' he said. ``He is a dictator.'' Members of Miami's Haitian community joined de Ronceray in asking the United States to help them oust Avril. About 40 Haitians attended de Ronceray's news conference, and several hundred later rallied in the neighborhood called Little Haiti in opposition to Avril and support of the expelled opposition leaders. ``The United States is fighting for democracy in the world,'' de Ronceray said. ``Mr. Avril is demonstating he is able to block the democratic process.''
AP880912-0203 	X	NEW YORK _ Stringent security on the one hand and a trusting openness on the other mark the dealing in New York's exotic Diamond District. Barbara Mangiameli was an outsider who proved remarkably successful in that environment _ until that day when she was murdered and the $500,000 in diamonds she had been carrying disappeared. It's a story worthy of a movie plot.
AP880720-0110 	X	At least 40 people suffered broken bones or heat exhaustion after the crowd surged toward the stage at a rock concert, authorities said. The incident occurred at Greenville Memorial Auditorium just before the start of a concert Tuesday night featuring David Lee Roth and Poison. ``They got caught up in the action, scared to death, being pushed up against the stage. They were sort of crushed between the crowd and the stage, and they couldn't breathe real good because of that,'' said Pat Browning, county Emergency Medical Service director. Several spectators suffered broken bones, EMS said. The building is air conditioned, but the crush of people made the temperature soar in front of the stage, said Clifford Gray, executive director of the auditorium. Four ambulances were called to the auditorium and an infirmary was set up, Gray said. Nine people were taken to Greenville Memorial Hospital, a spokeswoman said. ``Those people (the crowd) just don't have any regard for human life,'' said Inez Jones, whose daughter Terry was one of those treated at the hospital.
AP881105-0070 	X	Rare furniture designed by architect Frank Lloyd Wright will return to its original home in Springfield following efforts by Gov. James R. Thompson and more than $800,000 in donations. Thompson said Friday he has negotiated deals for the state-owned Dana-Thomas House museum to buy the furniture, a $704,000 double pedestal table lamp, a $20,000 drafting table and four dining room chairs costing $120,000. ``There are only a few major pieces from the Dana home that are still privately owned, so the opportunities to purchase them, either at auction or by private sale agreements, are extremely rare,'' Thompson said. Experts describe the Dana-Thomas house, built by Wright for $60,000 around 1903, as one of the finest examples of the architect's Prairie School houses open to the public. The house, commissioned by Susan Lawrence Dana and now maintained by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency, is one of the most completely furnished of all Wright's buildings. The lamp was purchased by the Dana-Thomas House Foundation through a direct sale arranged without fee by Christie's auction house in New York, Thompson said, noting that it is scheduled to arrive upon final payment next June. ``Considering the near-hysteria surrounding the acquisition of authentic Wright pieces and the rapidly escalating prices being offered by collectors, we were pleased that Christie's agreed to the private sale of this rare lamp,'' he said. The chairs were bought from a Colorado family and were returned to the Dana House in September. The drafting table will be bought from a private owner through Christie's.
AP881108-0218 	X	Lowell P. Weicker Jr., the maverick three-term Republican senator whose liberal positions often enraged his party's more conservative wing, was ousted Tuesday by moderate Democrat Joseph I. Lieberman, the state's attorney general.
AP880505-0303 	X	Oil futures prices have tumbled in the wake of a report showing domestic inventories of gasoline and crude were at higher-than-expected levels. In Wednesday trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, June contracts for West Texas Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark crude, fell 17 cents to close at $17.20 per barrel. Among refined products for June delivery, wholesale unleaded gasoline lost 0.56 cent per gallon, settling at 49.72 cents, and wholesale heating oil dropped 0.57 cent to 46.20 cents per gallon. The American Petroleum Institute, a Washington-based trade organization, reported late Tuesday that domestic gasoline supplies grew by 5.9 million barrels in the week ended April 29, while crude stocks shrunk by 700,000 barrels. Those figures in particular sent prices lower in London and New York, because they left more inventory than was expected, said Mary L. Haskins, an analyst at the Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. When inventories rise faster than demand, prices tend to fall. Wednesday's declines also reflected continuing market perceptions that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries would be unable to agree on a way tighten up its production, even when it meets next month in Vienna, Ms. Haskins said. Technical factors also contributed to the day's declines, she said.
AP881008-0141 	X	A man accused of raping, knifing and shooting three teen-age runaways was found guilty Saturday of murdering one of them. A Kitsap County Superior Court jury found Daniel J. Yates guilty of aggravated first-degree murder and other charges in the attack last year. The same jury now will hear more testimony before deciding between a death sentence or life in prison without parole. Yates, 33, a tattoo artist from nearby Bremerton, was accused of taking the boy and two girls he picked up Sept. 17, 1987, to an isolated area, raping them at gunpoint, and tying them up. Bunnie Lynn Brown, 13, was shot in the head during the attack and died two months later. The other girl, 15, and the boy, 13, survived. Yates was also found guilty of two counts of attempted first-degree murder and three counts of first-degree rape. Kris Brown, the mother of the murdered girl, smiled, cried and hugged a supporter when the verdict was read. The 15-year-old girl, who survived gunshots and a slashed throat, also was in the courtroom for the verdict. In closing arguments Friday, Kitsap County Prosecutor Dan Clem pointed at Yates and said, ``The state has presented to you an ugly, violent picture with that man at the core.'' The isolated area where Yates took the three had ``no houses, no lights, no traffic _ perfect place to rape and murder,'' Clem said. Yates raped the teens at gunpoint and tied them up, and while binding them he had time to premeditate murder, Clem said. The death penalty can be given only when murder is premeditated. Yates raped a girl, tied her up, then shot her in the eye and ear, but she remained conscious and watched as Yates sodomized a boy, Clem said. After the assailant left she freed herself and ran barefoot down the gravel road to get help, the prosecutor said. ``Who should she run into but the defendant?'' Clem said. ``This nightmare shouldn't happen to anybody.'' Yates slit the girl's throat in the second encounter, but ``he's still not done,'' Clem said. ``He strangles her, smashes her face into the ground.'' The girl played dead to make Yates leave, he said. The defense maintained that Yates attacked the children only after one of the girls consented to have sex with him, and the three then threatened to double-cross him for money. ``I am not denying to you _ Daniel Yates is not denying to you _ that he cut, choked, shot and strangled'' the teens, defense attorney Judith Mandel told jurors. But ``there are different versions of these events,'' she added. The three teens are from Bremerton, across Puget Sound from Seattle.
AP901117-0079 	X	He performed in places like Madison Square Garden more times than Frank Sinatra, Jack Dempsey and lots of other big names. But after 11,697 shows, animal trainer Gunther Gebel-Williams performs his last death-defying act Sunday with the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus. ``Everybody asks me, `Why now?''' he said in the thick German accent he hasn't lost since he came to the United States 22 years ago. ``I want to step down when I am really good. I don't want to be like Ali, Sugar Ray, `Another fight, another fight.' '' A U.S. citizen since 1979, he calls himself ``German-engineered but a proud American'' and often sports a cowboy hat and a Western-style shirt. Though he's 56, Gebel-Williams remains enviably trim, 141 pounds with a ruddy complexion and his trademark sweep of blond hair. He announced two years ago that he would retire from ``The Greatest Show on Earth'' at the end of the 1990 season. He plans to settle at his winter home in Venice, Fla., with his 20 Bengal and Siberian tigers. After 42 years on the road, he said, training 20 tigers is getting a little riskier because he has lost some of his quickness and his eyesight is not what it used to be. And glasses wouldn't look so hot with his skin-hugging tights and sequined boleros, he joked. ``When you have 20 tigers, it's not easy to act like nothing can happen,'' he said. ``I've been like their father, their brother. I've been in charge always. But when one tiger is hurt, they always blame me.'' His domination in the ring comes from a soft-spoken training method based on mutual respect that separates him from his chair-and whip-wielding predecessors like Clyde Beatty and Mabel Stark, who taught animals to fear them. Gebel-Williams strokes his elephants' trunks, pats the tigers and mumbles commands in German, Indian or English. He welcomes animal rights advocates to attend his training sessions. ``That's the difference between me and everybody else,'' he said. ``I did everything with open doors. ``In 21 years never did somebody say I treated an animal wrong.'' Gebel-Williams began his career when he joined Circus Williams in Germany as an usher at 12. He became so much a part of the Williams family, who had hired his mother as a seamstress, that he added their name to his. By the 1960s, he was well-known as one of Europe's top animal trainers. In 1968, he caught the eye of Irvin Feld, owner and producer of Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus, who bought the entire Circus Williams to get their star to come to America. Now Gebel-Williams will yield the ring to his 20-year-old son, Mark. But he won't yield the tigers because he's afraid they won't transfer their devotion to his son. Mark's act will include the African and Indian elephants, white Lippizaner horses, zebras and camels. ``I think it's time for Mark. I have to step back,'' said Gebel-Williams, adding that he'll continue to work with the animals behind the scenes. Gebel-Williams said he didn't plan anything special for his last show, explaining that a change in routine would confuse the animals. And he hopes no one calls for a speech. ``It'll be very tough, but as long as I don't have to talk I can get through it,'' he said. After a lifetime with the circus, it would be impossible for him - and his tigers - to give it up entirely, he said. ``I believe some of my tigers will miss this. Maybe once in a while, I'll take them in the ring in Venice, turn on the music real loud, and let them pretend.''
AP900621-0099 	X	The Supreme Court dealt a devastating blow to political patronage today, ruling that government employers generally may not base hiring, transfer and promotion decisions on someone's party affiliation. By a 5-4 vote, the justices said refusing to hire, transfer or promote people for politically partisan reasons in most cases violates their constitutionally protected freedoms of speech and association. The court said partisanship may play a role in such employment decisions only when political affiliation is an appropriate requirement for carrying out a job, such as a high-level policy adviser. ``Unless these patronage practices are narrowly tailored to further vital government interests, we must conclude that they impermissibly encroach on First Amendment freedoms,'' Justice William J. Brennan wrote for the court. The decision reinstates a lawsuit by three Illinois residents against Gov. James Thompson and Republican leaders in the state. Its sweeping prohibitions apply as well to federal and local government employers. In a landmark 1976 ruling and a 1980 sequel, the high court significantly weakened the political patronage system, sometimes called the ``spoils system.'' The rulings prohibited government employers from firing anyone _ even some policy-making and confidential government workers _ solely because of their political party unless party loyalty is a requirement for effective performance. But those decisions dealt only with firings. Before today, the court never had said partisanship can play no role in hiring, transfers and promotions as well. The court also struck down patronage powers of government employers in laying off and rehiring public employees. In other action, the court: _ Expanded police powers by allowing them to search a home when they are let in by someone they mistakenly believe has authority to consent to a warrantless search. In a 6-3 ruling in a case from Chicago, the justices said evidence from such searches may be used in court as long as police, at the time of the entry, reasonably believe the person who granted them access shared authority over the premises with the owner. _ Reinstated a former wrestling coach's lawsuit against an Ohio newspaper, ruling that allegedly libelous statements in the case can be treated as assertions of fact, not merely opinion. But the 7-2 ruling did not appear to reduce significantly the free-speech protections from libel law that opinion traditionally has been given by the nation's courts. For the first time, the court said the Constitution's First Amendment does not require a special, separate privilege for stated opinions. The decision makes clear, however, that the fact-opinion distinction will remain important in libel cases, and courts may continue to throw out lawsuits that seek damages for someone's stated opinions. _ Generally barred states and energy consumers from bringing federal antitrust suits against energys producers accused of conspiring to fix prices. In a 5-4 ruling, the justices said only direct purchasers of energy _ in this case utility companies _ may file such suits. A federal appeals court had upheld the Illinois patronage policy in hiring, transfers and promotions but banned such considerations in layoffs and rehirings. It said layoffs are too similar to firings. Brennan said employee loyalty to government policies can be ensured without widespread patronage. ``A government's interest in securing employees who will loyally implement its policies can be adequately served by choosing or dismissing certain high-level employees on the basis of their political views,'' he said. Brennan was joined by Justices Byron R. White, Thurgood Marshall, Harry A. Blackmun and John Paul Stevens. Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices Antonin Scalia, Anthony M. Kennedy and Sandra Day O'Connor dissented. In a dissenting opinion, Scalia wrote, ``Today, the court makes its constitutional civil-service reform absolute, extending to all decisions regarding government employment.'' In the Illinois patronage case, two men and a woman who said their job status suffered because they did not vote in Republican primaries or give money to the party sued the governor, the state GOP and the heads of several state agencies. Cynthia Rutan said she repeatedly was denied promotions to supervisory positions in the state Rehabilitative Services Department because she did not support Republican candidates. Franklin Taylor, an equipment operator, said he was denied an Illinois Transportation Department transfer to another county because party officials opposed it. James Moore said the state Corrections Department has refused to hire him since 1978 because he could not get the backing of key GOP leaders. The three sued for more than $1 billion in damages. Their suit also seeks to shift control of the state employment system to a court-appointed federal receiver. During oral arguments before the justices last January, their lawyer, Mary Lee Leahy of Springfield, Ill., said Thompson's office has controlled all new hires since 1980. In all, 62,000 civil service jobs are under the governor's jurisdiction. She previously had submitted to the court a form used to screen state employees who seek a promotion and live in Sangamon County. The form asks employees to declare how they, or in some cases their parents, voted in primary elections. It also asks whether the person would be willing to work for Republicans during an election. Lawyers for Thompson and state GOP leaders argued that hiring political allies stimulates good government because the employee is likely to appreciate the job and, in turn, serve the public well. Today's decision means all the lawsuits remain alive. Several groups from the state, including Independent Voters of Illinois and Common Cause-Illinois, argued in a ``friend-of-the-court'' brief, ``A politically conditioned employment system inhibits the free functioning of democracy, rather than advancing it, since it seeks to assist only a single favored political party and to dissuade all other political activity.'' In a similar brief, lawyers for the AFL-CIO said, ``Allocating governmental resources purely in the interest of partisan politics grants the favored party an advantage that threatens the legitimacy of our governmental structure.'' Lawyers for the commonwealth of Puerto Rico, however, urged the justices to uphold the Illinois system. ``The prospect of employment is a significant incentive to political effort (and) opportunities to implement the administration's democratic mandate are enhanced significantly by patronage hiring,'' the Puerto Rico lawyers contended. ``These are compelling state interests which outweigh the possible First Amendment impairment resulting from patronage hiring.'' No other state filed a brief in support of the Illinois system. The cases are Rutan vs. Illinois Republican Party, 88-1872, and Frech vs. Rutan, 88-2074.
AP900110-0173 	X	The former director of immigration under Manuel Antonio Noriega, charged with selling passports and visas, left the Vatican Embassy on Wednesday and gave up to U.S. troops, an embassy official said. Former director Belgica de Castillo and her husband, Carlos Castillo, left the nunciature of their own accord, said the Rev. Joseph Spiteri. Still inside is Capt. Eliezer Gaytan, chief of Noriega's personal security force. The Castillos sought refuge shortly after U.S. troops invaded on Dec. 20. Deposed dictator Noriega himself holed up in the embassy from Dec. 24 to Jan. 3 before turning himself over to U.S. soldiers. Spiteri said a U.S. military vehicle picked up the Castillos and took them to a U.S. base. Panama's new government said Monday that eight former immigration officials, including Mrs. Castillo, were being charged with corruption for selling visas and passports. Attorney General Rogelio Cruz announced Wednesday that a private law firm had filed a complaint against Manuel Solis Palma, who served as acting president for six months in 1988, but was never recognized by the United States, which considered him a Noriega puppet. The complaint accusing Solis Palma of ``usurping public functions and committing crimes against political liberties'' was being investigated, Cruz said. He said Solis Palma, now a private citizen in Panama, asked for a guarantee he would not be arrested if he agreed to meet with authorities for questioning. Solis Palma replaced President Eric Arturo Delvalle after Delvalle tried to fire Noriega in February 1988 and was acting president until Sept. 1, 1988. New U.S. Ambassador Deane R. Hinton presented his credentials to President Guillermo Endara on Wednesday and said U.S.-Panamanian relations were ``perfect'' following Noriega's ouster. ``I see no problems now,'' Hinton said, speaking to reporters in Spanish after meeting Endara. ``We will support and work with the democratic government of Panama.'' John Grant McDonald, the new British ambassador, also presented his credentials but made no statement. Panamanians continued to pick over the remains of the building in downtown Panama City where Noriega had his military headquarters, toting away everything from furniture to track lighting and pornography. The building, heavily damaged by fighting in the invasion, will be demolished on Thursday, Housing Minister Raul Figueroa said. Foreign Minister Julio Linares said Panamanians linked to Noriega have taken refuge in the embassies of Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru, Cuba and the Vatican. All but the Bolivian mission are surrounded by U.S. troops. Cruz said two of the 12 Panamanians who sought refuge in the Peruvian Embassy were suspects in the killing of Maj. Moises Giroldi, who led an unsuccessful coup attempt against Noriega on Oct. 3. He did not identify the two but said the Foreign Ministry would tell Peru ``they are not being persecuted politically'' and so could not be given asylum. Noriega's family is in the Cuban Embassy. Linares said Panama is considering their request for safe-conduct to the Dominican Republic but must first decide whether they can be charged with any offenses.
AP880909-0022 	X	Young men who go out at night with romance in their hearts and condoms in their wallets should find another storage place, medical researchers say. Ozone, a major component of smog and a product of lightning storms, damages the latex in condoms, and any practice threatening to tear condoms' packaging and expose them to air should be avoided, the researchers said. ``It's not something you should subject to putting in your back pocket, or sitting on, or in any way damaging,'' said Russell P. Sherwin, a researcher at the University of Southern California School of Medicine in Los Angeles. Ozone is a lung irritant produced when industrial pollutants and nitrogen oxide react in the presence of sunlight. It reaches high levels in U.S. cities inhabited by a total of 75 million people, the federal Environmental Protection Agency estimated earlier this year. U.S. sales of condoms _ fueled in part by U.S. Surgeon General C. Everett Koop's endorsement as protection against AIDS _ totaled $290 million last year and should jump 20 percent more this year, market analysts have said. Sherwin and fellow researchers tested 20 unrolled, unpackaged latex condoms, exposing them to air containing 0.3 parts per million of ozone for 72 hours, a level comparable to a ``Stage 1'' smog alert in Southern California. Afterward, all but two condoms had obvious holes in them and 11 burst at pressures far below those that condoms unexposed to ozone-containing air were able to withstand, the researchers said. Examination of the ozone-exposed condoms with an electron microscope also revealed deterioration, the researchers reported in a letter in Friday's Journal of the American Medical Association. ``The effect on latex of 0.3 parts per million of ozone for 72 hours is serious and deserves consideration for all phases of condom storage, including the storage and dispersion of non-packaged condoms by sexually transmitted disease prevention and family planning clinics,'' the researchers wrote. Sherwin said in a telephone interview Wednesday, ``The package seemed to provide protection as long at it was intact, as long as it wasn't perforated or crinkled.'' He said the researchers are continuing studies and plan to issue formal findings, including whether another common pollutant _ nitrogen dioxide _ can penetrate typical condom packaging, as it does other kinds of packaging, and cause condoms to become faulty even when unopened. ``The general advice that we offer on condoms holds,'' said Dr. Robert Staab, vice president of scientific affairs for Schmid Laboratories Inc., the nation's No. 2 condom-maker behind Carter Wallace Inc. of New York. ``That is that they are going to remain safe and effective for a normal life of a product, which is in years, as long as you keep them away from heat, light and ozone,'' Staab said Thursday from the company's Little Falls, N.J., headquarters. The company's packaging is designed partly with ozone in mind by choosing ``only raw materials that will seal properly'' to keep out heat, light and ozone, Staab said. Schmid makes Ramses, Sheik and Koromex latex brands and Fourex natural skins brands, but the researchers declined to identify any of the brands of condoms involved. Natural skins condoms also are susceptible to damage from exposure to the environment, Staab added. Recent recalls of several condom lots have increased concern about their dependability, the California researchers said. ``Our general advice is if upon opening a condom and it doesn't look right, don't use it,'' Staab said.
AP901102-0037 	X	Testimony in Round 2 of a comatose woman's right-to-die case ended without any opposition to letting her die. Her doctor and her state-appointed guardian agreed with family members and friends of 33-year-old Nancy Cruzan, who has been in an irreversible coma since 1983. Dr. James C. Davis, who opposed removing a feeding tube when the family first sought court permission to let her die three years ago, changed his mind. He said during a Circuit Court hearing Thursday he favored the mercy death because he was convinced there was no hope for any improvement. He said living for years in a coma, without feeling or thought, was a terrifying prospect. ``I think it would be personally a living hell,'' Davis said. Asked if he would want someone to end his life if he were in her place, Davis replied: ``I think anyone would choose that if they had observed that condition.'' The U.S. Supreme Court, in its first right-to-die decision, last summer rejected a request by Ms. Cruzan's parents to end her life, ruling the state could bar such moves if victims had not made their desires known. Ms. Cruzan left no written instructions about what she would want done under such circumstances. The family went back to court, saying they had new witnesses who could support their claims that she would want to die. Judge Charles E. Teel, who ruled in the parents' favor before he was overruled, said he would rule on the new petition by Jan. 1. Joe Cruzan testified he knew his daughter would rather die than spend the rest of her life as a ``vegetable.'' ``My God, I wouldn't be here today if I thought there was any question,'' he said, his voice cracking. Two former co-workers and a former employer also said Ms. Cruzan told them she would not want to live if she ever suffered permanent brain damage. She went into a coma after a 1983 car crash. Doctors say she will never recover but could remain alive for 30 years or more in her currentcondition. Ms. Cruzan's state-appointed guardian said he agreed with the Cruzans and her personal physician that the feeding tube should be removed. ``I think it clearly is not in her best interest to go on this way,'' said the guardian, Thad McCanse. ``I'm convinced Nancy would not want to live like she is now.'' Debi Havner, who now lives in Enid, Okla., and Marianne Smith of Joplin, testified that while working with in 1978 at a school for severely handicapped children in Joplin, the three once agreed none of them would not want to be kept alive artificially. Tom Turner, the former owner of an Oklahoma office products store where Ms. Cruzan worked briefly in 1981, said in videotaped testimony that she also discussed her opposition to certain life-sustaining measures with him. ``She said such things as `Vegetables can't hug their nieces,''' Turner said. ``Her family was a major portion of her life, and if she couldn't have them, she didn't want to live.''
AP880501-0083 	X	An upcoming report by Surgeon General C. Everett Koop will declare that nicotine is an addictive drug, the head of the federal Office of Smoking and Health said Sunday. Dr. Ronald M. Davis said he hopes the report will spur the public to understand that cigarette smoking ``is more than just a simple habit.'' ``We have to at least give it the serious attention that we do for the illicit drugs such as heroin, cocaine, etc.,'' Davis said on CBS-TV's ``Face the Nation.'' Government officials have been saying for years that nicotine is an addictive drug ``just like cocaine, just like heroin and other drugs that people commonly accept as addicting,'' he said. ``But this report, which will be released in a few weeks, looks at the evidence in far greater detail than we've ever looked at before. It compares this drug nicotine versus other drugs,'' he said. The report would be the first by a federal official with as high a rank as the surgeon general to declare nicotine addictive. Davis noted that the 1986 surgeon general's report on smoking, which documented the health hazards of passive smoking, accelerated the trend toward restricting or banning smoking in public places and in the work place. Among the changes triggered by that report is the recently inaugurated ban on smoking on commercial airplane flights that last two hours or less. Although Davis did not say exactly what steps should be taken once the surgeon general issues his report, he questioned some current ways that cigarettes are distributed. ``Why ... do we sell tobacco products in vending machines?'' he asked. ``We don't allow other addicting drugs to be sold in vending machines. Why do we allow free samples of the product to be sent through the mail? Or to be passed out on public property where kids and others have free access to them? When we call this drug an addicting drug, we have to take it more seriously than we currently do.'' Attempts to reach tobacco industry officials for comment on the upcoming Koop report were unsuccessful. A spokeswoman for the Tobacco Institute and a spokesman for the R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. did not answer phone calls made to numbers listed for their homes on Sunday afternoon. Davis attributed the lack of federal regulations on cigarettes to the historical social acceptability of smoking ``and probably the political influence of the tobacco industry.'' But Davis said he believes that as fewer people smoke, as it becomes a less socially acceptable activity and as people become more aware of the hazards of smoking, ``we'll begin to take actions that we've taken long ago for most other consumer products.'' He said lower tar, lower nicotine cigarettes are not the answer because some people smoking such cigarettes ``actually start to smoke more cigarettes per day, or inhale more deeply, or puff more frequently.'' Davis noted that overall, only 27 percent of the adult population currently smokes cigarettes, compared with 42 percent of adults in 1964 when the first surgeon general's report documenting some health risks of smoking was released. But he said higher smoking rates are occurring in certain population groups, specifically blue collar workers, the unemployed, certain racial and ethnic minority groups and young women. ``Young women smoke at a higher rate than young men, which is the only age group at which we see women smoking more than men,'' he said, attributing that in part to advertising ploys indicating that cigarette smoking is a form of women's liberation.
AP881207-0243 	X	The true legend of the Traveling Wilburys began when George Har..., er, Nelson Wilbury needed to record an extra song at short notice and invited two of his dinner companions to lend their voices. Nine days and 10 songs later, the result was one of those happy accidents that proves there's more to the music business than accountants and estates. You won't find the names George Harrison, Bob Dylan, Roy Orbison, Tom Petty and Jeff Lynne on ``Volume One,'' the debut album by the oddly-named Traveling Wilburys. But the dark glasses and pseudonyms can't hide those familiar talents. Orbison died at the age of 52 on Dec. 6 of a heart attack. ``We definitely didn't want to treat this like a supergroup,'' said Petty, or Charles T. Wilbury Jr. ``I don't even like the term all that much. But we were aware that it would be viewed as such. We look at the Wilburys as a completely other persona as ourselves.'' Harrison mentioned to Lynne and Orbison over dinner last spring that he needed a new B-side for a 12-inch single release. The other two said they'd help him put together a song. The former Beatle had to retrieve his guitar, which he'd left at Petty's California house during a visit a few days earlier, Petty said. The lead Heartbreaker was also asked to join in on the record. Since all the nearby studios were booked, the three amigos had to impose on another friend who had recording facilities in his house. Dylan said he'd be glad to offer his assistance. ``We all sat around the grass at Bob's house and wrote this song called `Handle With Care' and recorded it that night,'' Petty recalled. ``When it was all done it sounded really good.'' Much too good, they thought, for a B-side. So they kept on writing and recording. ``It was a very innocent thing, really,'' Petty said. ``We were just kind of enjoying it and we were deep into it before we realized almost what we were doing.'' That spontaneity, and a lot of humor, comes through on the record. ``Volume One'' sounds like a group of friends, albeit extremely talented friends, enjoying themselves together. All five trade lead and backing vocals and strum guitars. The results are a cross between Harrison's early '70s solo work and the electronic flourishes Lynne brought to the Electric Light Orchestra. Orbison's ``Not Alone Any More'' is in the vein he's mined for a quarter-century and the three songs Dylan dominates are some of his best work in years. The song ``Dirty World'' pokes fun at Prince with a series of sexual double-entendres and the wickedly funny ``Tweeter and the Monkey Man'' is littered with Bruce Springsteen references. The record was a true collaboration, Petty said. On ``Tweeter,'' for instance, he and Dylan spoke lyrics into a tape recorder then edited them into a story. Other Wilburys added the chorus, he said. Credit a non-rocker, Prince Charles of Great Britain, with the name Traveling Wilburys, Petty said. Harrison and Lynne performed at the Prince's Trust concert last year and were complimented by the host following the show, he said. The prince said the two should form a band, and when they asked for a name, he suggested the Traveling Wilburys, Petty said. The quintet quickly adopted the persona. Harrison is identified throughout as Nelson Wilbury, Lynne is Otis Wilbury, Orbison is Lefty Wilbury and Dylan's called Lucky. The whimsical liner notes explain that ``the original Wilburys were a stationary people who, realizing that their civilization could not stand still forever, began to go for short walks.'' The offbeat sense of humor seemed to take the pressure off the participants and lent the album a certain mystique, said Paul Grein, author of the Chartbeat column in Billboard magazine. It's working _ the album debuted on the charts at No. 57 and shot to No. 23 in its second week, he said. ``It's destined to be a very big hit,'' Grein said. The Wilbury monikers also took some pressure off the businessmen, since Harrison, Dylan, Petty and Orbison are all contracted to different record companies. There are more than just joking reasons why all the names were left off the album jacket. Petty said the Wilburys have been approached to do a tour, and though no one's said no, they haven't all said yes, either. He hinted that the Wilbury family tree might be larger, but wouldn't say if a ``Volume Two'' is planned. There's the obvious risk of losing the spark that made this record special. ``I don't think anybody wants the Wilburys to be work,'' he said. ``I would leave the door open to that. We wouldn't rule it out because we had so much fun. I think it could be done again, but not right away. ``We were all very pleased with the way it came out,'' Petty continued. ``It's so nice when you get the spirit into the vinyl. That's what you strive for. I hope everybody smiles when they hear it.''
AP900102-0196 	X	Hungary's reform-minded government plans to privatize the Malev state airline, the deputy transport minister said Tuesday. In an interview with the Magyar Hirlap daily, Sandor Kalnoki Kiss said the government had already received many offers for Malev but planned to hire a professional company to handle the sell-off. ``We have not agreed with anyone but we give everyone a hearing and urge them to take part in the competition,'' Kalnoki Kiss said. He said that, while it would be difficult for the government to retain a controlling stake in the airline, his ministry would seek a guarantee to have a say in future company decisions, the news agency reported. Kalnoki Kiss gave no further details. Malev's 22-plane fleet flies to 40 countries in Europe, the Middle East and North America.
AP901212-0217 	X	Data General Corp. today announced today that Edson D. de Castro, the 52-year-old chairman of the troubled computer maker, would resign on Dec. 31. Vice Chairman Herbert J. Richman, 56, will retire at the end of its fiscal year in September. A company statement gave no reasons for the retirements of the two executives, who helped found Data General in 1968. Ronald L. Skates, the company president and chief executive officer, praised de Castro as ``an industry legend.'' He also commended Richman for leading the company's sales and marketing efforts. Skates said Richman deserved much of the credit for Data General's rapid rise in the market for mid-range minicomputers. That market has fallen on hard times. Data General has not enjoyed a profitable year since 1985, when its employment peaked at 17,700. Since then, the company has suffered a string of losses, and employment has shrunk to around 9,500. Analysts say Data General has responded with some strong products, particularly its AViiON workstations. But the minicomputer slump has continued to act as a drag on earnings, hampering the company's repeated efforts to turn a profit. The company lost $139 million in its most recent fiscal year. Revenues were $1.22 billion, compared with $1.31 billion the year before. Neither de Castro nor Richman will seek re-election to the board of directors, but Richman will continue to serve as executive vice president for the AsiaPacific region until he retires, the company said.
AP900607-0168 	X	South Korean President Roh Tae-woo left Honolulu Thursday afternoon for Seoul as he wound up his historic trip to the United States. On Monday, Roh held groundbreaking talks with Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev in San Francisco. Then, he flew to Washington to brief President Bush on the talks aimed at reducing tensions between North and South Korea. Roh spent about 18 hours in Hawaii relaxing from his high-level diplomatic contacts with the two superpower leaders. About 100 men, women and children from Hawaii's Korean community were on hand at Hickam Air Force Base for Roh's departure. Many of the women were dressed in hanboks, traditional Korean dresses.
AP900919-0023 	X	New Jersey and Indiana lawmakers are at odds over a Senate-approved measure that would allow states to close their borders to other states' garbage to protect shrinking landfill capacity. Sen. Dan Coats, R-Ind., said his bill would give ``every state the right to determine its own destiny'' in managing trash. But New Jersey Democratic Sens. Frank Lautenberg and Bill Bradley contend the bill could slam the door on states unprepared for critical landfill shortages. The Senate approved the measure Tuesday on a 68-31 vote. Lautenberg and Bradley say they will try to persuade a House-Senate conference committee to kill the bill. New Jersey is the largest exporter of solid waste to Indiana landfills, which Coats said are eight to 10 years from reaching their capacity. Indiana, he said, is afraid of being overrun by trash. But New Jersey says it's also in danger of being overwhelmed by garbage. Coats' proposal, offered as an amendment to the District of Columbia appropriations bill, would let states block garbage imports as long as they had a 20-year solid waste plan in place. Lautenberg and Bradley charged the measure would block development of a comprehensive national solid waste policy by pitting state against state. ``What goes around, comes around,'' Bradley said several times on the Senate floor, as he warned colleagues that 37 states and the District of Columbia export garbage and could find themselves in New Jersey's position. The New Jersey senators told reporters the garbage measure could be stripped from the district appropriations bill because the House has no similar garbage provision in its version. The district appropriations bill is also in danger of a presidential veto because it contains abortion funding language that led to two vetoes last year. If the garbage provision ``is knocked out, we'll be back next year,'' Coats said. ``At minimum, we have established a 2-to-1 majority to do something about this problem.'' Lautenberg accused Coats of playing election-year politics with the garbage issue by running television campaign ads that depict a caricature of a New Jersey man dumping garbage on a Hoosier stoop. Coats was among those accusing New Jersey of not doing enough to control its own waste crisis. ``New Jersey has to solve its problem in a sensible, non-polluting way,'' Lautenberg said, acknowledging the state's position had few adherents outside the Northeast. ``We knew we were on the less-popular side of the issue,'' he said. But Lautenberg argued that passage would let states impose ``unlimited, punitive fees on out-of-state garbage'' without Environmental Protection Agency review. ``A state writes its own ticket,'' he said. Lautenberg also warned the bill ``would force locked-out states to take desperate steps ... that may mean a rush to incinerators'' or illegal dumping.
AP900302-0137 	X	A wide area of Southern California rolled today with another aftershock of Wednesday's big earthquake, triggering a rockslide on a mountain road but no reports of significant damage or injuries. The quake shook Los Angeles, Riverside, San Bernardino and San Diego counties. It also hit Orange County, where President Bush was addressing a noon anti-drug rally. The aftershock measured 4.7 on the Richter scale at 9:26 a.m., said Robert Finn, spokesman for the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena. It was preceded today by a 2.5 quake at 2:52 a.m. and followed within two hours by about 10 quakes under magnitude 2.5, including a 2.4 at 10:41 a.m., according to Caltech. A rockslide closed Mount Baldy Road in the mountains north of Upland and only residents were allowed through, Caltrans spokesman Anthony Hughes said. ``It was scary and I'm shaking. But nothing fell or flew this time,'' said Melina Manning of Ontario, two miles south of the epicenter. ``All the pans and the lights swayed back and forth. It was mild compared to the other day but very scary especially because your nerves are shot from the other day.'' ``I was under the desk again. It was very strong here,'' said state Office of Emergency Services spokesman Michael Guerin in Ontario. The aftershocks came as Southern Californians bounced by the largest quake to hit the region in more than two years were sweeping up after millions of dollars in damage. City council members in Pomona _ hardest hit of several areas struck by Wednesday's earthquake _ said they would meet today to request that Gov. George Deukmejian assist them in obtaining federal or state funds to repair an estimated $10 million in damage in their city. The state Office of Emergency Services said Thursday the quake, measuring 5.5 on the Richter scale, caused at least $12.7 million damage in the cities of Claremont, Pomona, La Verne, Chino, Ontario, Rancho Cucamonga, Montclair and Upland and the counties of Los Angeles, Riverside and San Bernardino. The figure ``is very preliminary, based on information provided by cities and counties,'' said Guerin. The quake, felt along the coast from San Diego to Santa Barbara and as far east as Las Vegas, was centered on an unnamed fault three miles northwest of this city 40 miles east of Los Angeles. It toppled scores of chimneys, shattered hundreds of windows and collapsed one building's wall, but remarkably, caused no major injuries or deaths. Dozens of smaller aftershocks have rattled the area since. There was no official estimate of the number of injured other than ``several dozen'' from the OES. The most serious injuries, officials said, were a few broken bones. Only one person, a Pomona man, was known to have been left homeless by the quake. But the temblor spurred renewed calls for Southern Californians to prepare for the so-called ``Big One,'' a catastrophic earthquake measuring between 7.5 and 8 on the Richter scale of ground motion. A 1988 U.S. Geological Survey report said that a quake that size is at least 60 percent likely by the year 2018 on the southern San Andreas Fault. ``This is the handwriting on the wall and we better start looking at the design of some of our buildings,'' Pomona Vice Mayor Clay Bryant said Thursday. ``We've already been put on notice by a 5.5.'' Pomona Mayor Donna Smith said city inspectors were compiling a list of how many unreinforced masonry buildings remain in the city, which has several landmark structures more than 100 years old. She said 301 buildings in Pomona were damaged and 17 were declared uninhabitable. Pomona, Claremont and La Verne all declared local states of emergency Wednesday, but the La Verne City Council withdrew its declaration Thursday after determining damage was not as bad as first believed. The destruction was widely scattered throughout the region. In Pomona, for example, part of the south face of the 58-year-old brick-and-concrete Trinity United Methodist Church collapsed while the brick Pilgram Congregational Church a block away withstood the quake. At the city's historic Phillips Mansion, built in 1875, a chimney toppled onto a roof, causing an estimated $500,000 damage, but surrounding buildings were unscathed. Despite the damage, the quake was far less serious than the one that struck the Whittier area on Oct. 1, 1987. That one measured 5.9 and, together with a 5.3-magnitude aftershock on Oct. 4, killed eight people, injured more than 200 and caused $358 million in damage. The Richter scale is a measure of ground motion as recorded on seismographs. An earthquake of 5 can cause considerable damage and 6 severe damage.
AP901130-0208 	X	Oil prices tumbled more than $4 per barrel today as President Bush held out the possibility of a diplomatic solution to the Persian Gulf crisis. Contracts for light sweet crude fell more than $1 per barrel in a span of several minutes while Bush was on television giving his assessment of the crisis. His remarks followed a vote late Thursday in which the U.N. Security Council authorized the use of force to push Iraqi troops out of oil-rich Kuwait if Iraqi President Saddam Hussein does not withdraw them by Jan. 15. Crude then kept falling sharply, sinking below the $30 per barrel threshold, after Bush's news conference had ended. By late afternoon, contracts for crude delivery in January were down $4.21 per barrel, at $28.70, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Oil's biggest move during the crisis was a fall of $5.41 per barrel on Oct. 22. Contracts for crude delivery in several later months were down by their daily limit of $1.50 per barrel. Bush said he would invite Iraqi's foreign minister, Tariq Aziz, to come to Washington in December to discuss the situation. Bush also mentioned the possibility that he would send Secretary of State James A. Baker III to Baghdad, the Iraqi capital. ``The reaction is very much to his inviting Tariq Aziz to Washington and Baker to Baghdad,'' said Ann-Louise Hittle, a senior oil analyst with Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. The market had moved up earlier in the week in anticipation of the U.N. resolution, so Bush's comments indicating that he would send troops into combat if necessary did not move the market. The president said he would accept nothing less than a complete withdrawal of Iraqi troops and freedom for hostages held by Saddam. ``This has been a war premium market,'' Hittle said. ``We rose on expectation of the U.N. resolution being passed. With his comment today, we're losing that war premium and backing off.'' As oil plummeted, prices for refined petroleum products also fell. By early afternoon, home heating oil was down 6.42 cents at 87.10 cents a gallon on December delivery contracts. Unleaded gasoline fell 5.12 cents a gallon to 78.25 cents on December delivery contracts. Some of the contracts for product delivery in later months were down by their daily limit of 4 cents a gallon. Natural gas was off 7.5 cents at $2.415 per 1,000 cubic feet on contracts for delivery in January.
AP880830-0131 	X	The soloist for the Italian air force stunt team caused the fatal crash at the West German air show when he arrived too low and too soon at the point where the jets intersected, his commander said Tuesday. Lt. Col. Diego Raineri spoke to reporters shortly before the remains of the three pilots killed in the crash Sunday at Ramstein, West Germany, arrived at the airport. About 2,000 people were at the airport when the bodies arrived. Defense Minister Valerio Zanone will attend the funeral Wednesday for the pilots identified as Lt. Col. Mario Naldini, 38; the soloist, Lt. Col. Ivo Nutarelli, 41; and Capt. Giorgio Alessio, 31, who was the youngest member of the team. ``It is easy enough to tell what happened,'' said Ranieri, who as commader was coordinating the team's manuevers by radio from the ground at the time of the collision that sent one plane hurtling into the crowd. ``The first section of the formation flew in one direction and the soloist came in from 90 degrees, colliding with two planes,'' he said. Two of the three other planes in that group were damaged, he said. ``I was the only one (team member) to see the tragedy, but I don't understand what happened. The soloist came in early on the rest of the formation and at the same altitude,'' Ranieri said. ``The other section, composed of four planes, did not know what happened until the end of the manuever when the pilots saw the wreckage and the smoke on the runway,'' he said. Some Italian politicans called for a parliamentary investigation of the crash, called for the resignation of the defense minister and the Air Force commander, and criticized the Defense Ministry's decision to allow the team to continue its performances this year. ``The decision of the Defense Ministry to continue the next exhibitions of the national aerobatic team seems like an offense in front of the victims, the hundreds of injured at Ramstein and the pilots that died in the accident,'' said Greens party Deputies Rosa Filippini and Giancarlo Salvoldi. The two said they would demand an urgent meeting of the Chamber of Deputies to debate the tragedy. Deputy Flaminio Piccoli, a member of the dominant Christian Democrats and the president of the chamber's foreign committee, criticized the risks ``to the lives of the exceptional pilots and to the lives of the citizens and spectators'' and said it was necessary for the government and Parliament to investigate the tragedy. The organizers of an air show Satuday in Fribourg, Switzerland, announced they have asked the Italian team to withdraw because of the accident at Ramstein. They said the request was to show respect for the dead pilots and because the crash investigation is still underway. Also on Tuesday, organizers canceled a Sept. 11 air show in Venice. Ranieri, during his impromptu news conference, defended the decision to continue performances by the team this year. ``An experience like Ramstein cannot be erased from the memory, but the motivation to do our work has not changed very much,'' he said. ``The time to reconstruct the unit decimated by the accident will be months, probably years. We were the best in the world.''
AP880825-0159 	X	The value of U.S. agricultural exports is expected to jump 22 percent to a four-year high of $34 billion this fiscal year, up from $27.9 billion in 1986-87, the Agriculture Department said Thursday. In terms of actual quantity, shipments were forecast at 146 million metric tons in the year that will end Sept. 30, up 13 percent from last year. Both the value and quantity estimates were up from the previous USDA forecasts on May 26 of $33.5 billion and 145.5 million tons. Although the report cited no figures for subsequent years, it said export values may increase in 1988-89 due to higher prices but the volume of shipments may decline. The report said the rise in estimates since May stemmed from larger-than-expected exports of animal products, slightly larger subsidized wheat exports, and higher corn prices due to the drought. Noting that 1987-88 exports are now expected to be up $6.1 billion and 16.8 million tons, the report said, ``This largely reflects reduced competitor supplies; higher prices for grains, oilseeds and cotton; and increased U.S. export competitiveness'' helped by a lower-valued dollar and the Export Enhancement Program, or EEP. Under EEP, selected countries _ including the Soviet Union and China _ can get wheat and other designated commodities subsidized by the U.S. government. The new forecast showed the value of grain exports at $12.2 billion, up from $11.8 billion expected in May and 1986-87 shipments worth $9.33 billion. Oilseeds, mainly soybeans, were forecast at $7.6 billion, down slightly from $7.7 billion indicated three months ago. But that was up from $6.47 billion last year. Exports of livestock products this year were raised to $4.7 billion from the May forecast of $4.5 billion. In 1986-87, those were valued at $3.96 billion. Other major categories included: horticultural products, $3.7 billion this year, the same as indicated in May but up from $3.15 billion in 1986-87. Cotton export values were shown at $2.2 billion, the same as the earlier forecast. Last year's cotton shipments were worth $1.43 billion.
AP900202-0067 	X	Two Americans and an Israeli have been charged in a federal indictment with conspiring to arrange the sale to Iran of three Israeli-owned U.S.-made military cargo planes. The indictment filed Thursday in U.S. District Court stemmed from an undercover investigation by the U.S. Customs Service. The sale, in which Iran was to buy the aircraft for $12 million each, never went through. The men, allegedly middlemen in the deal, were charged with conspiring to cover up the true destination of the C-130E transports by submitting to the State Department false papers that said a Brazilian company would buy them. Prosecutors said the proposed sale violated the Arms Export Control Act in which the State Department must approve all transfers abroad of American-made military goods. It prohibits the sale of such goods to countries such as Iran that have supported acts of international terrorism. Assistant U.S. Attorney Baruch Weiss said he could not say whether Israel knew the planes were to be sold to Iran. The Brazilian company, which was not identified, allegedly was to receive $500,000 for providing the false information to the State Department, the indictment said. The defendants named in the indictment were Joseph O'Toole, 58, of Claremont, Calif.; Richard St. Francis, 40, of Fairfield, Conn.; and Ari Ben Menashe, an Israeli. All three were first arrested in April when the terms of the deal were finalized with an undercover Customs agent. The case was then presented to a grand jury, which returned the indictment, charging each with one count of conspiracy. Menashe has been jailed without bail since his arrest. The others are free on bond. Weiss said he could not give more information about the defendants. St. Francis, however, was identified in court papers as a vice president of the Connecticut office of Vienna, Va.-based TransCapital Corp. If convicted of conspiracy, the men face up to five years in jail and a $250,000 fine.
AP880818-0267 	X	Housing construction rose a moderate 2.4 percent in July, the government reports, but economists warn that rising mortgage rates could make the two-month housing rebound a brief one. The Commerce Department said Wednesday that new homes and apartments were built at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.49 million units last month after advancing 4.4 percent in June. Housing starts dropped a sharp 12.1 percent in May to the slowest pace in three years, and rising mortgage rates were blamed.
AP900316-0119 	X	There were 840 tornadoes in the United States last year, the second highest total on record, the National Weather Service reported Friday. The record is 907 tornadoes, recorded in 1984. There were relatively few fatalities in 1989, however, the Weather Service said. There were 48 deaths attributed to twisters, well below the 83 fatalities in an average year. Alabama suffered the most 1989 deaths with 21, according to the report. There were 9 deaths in New York, 5 in North Carolina, 4 in Georgia, 3 in Florida, 2 each in Louisiana and South Carolina and 1 each in Tennessee and Texas.
AP900706-0256 	X	The board of directors of The Pittston Co. has elected a new president and vice chairman, the company said Friday. Joseph C. Farrell was elected president and chief operating officer, and David L. Marshall was elected vice chairman, the company said. Both had been executive vice presidents. Paul W. Douglas, chairman and chief executive officer, said the promotions were part of the transition plan for his scheduled retirement in September 1991. Pittston suffered a $10 million first quarter loss it blamed on a 10-month coal miners' strike and by poor performance in its air freight business. The Greenwich-based company is engaged in the mining and marketing of bituminous coal through the Pittston Coal Group, Inc. and Pyxis Resources Co.; in air freight services through Burlington Air Express, Inc.; in security transportation through Brink's Inc.; and in home security services through Brink's Home Security, Inc.
AP880930-0056 	X	After nearly seven years of court proceedings, it took a jury just over two hours to reject the claim by former Gov. Edward J. King that he was libeled by a 1981 political column in The Boston Globe. But the former chief executive claimed he was vindicated anyway because the verdict issued Thursday found one sentence in the column was false. ``We did the very best we could,'' King said after the verdict in Suffolk Superior Court. He said he did not consider the lawsuit a waste of time because ``now we know that something the Globe never retracted was a false statement.'' King, who said earlier that he might run for governor again if he prevailed, said he and his lawyer would decide whether to appeal the ruling within 30 days. He had no comment on his political plans, ifany. After six days of testimony, the jury returned a special verdict slip that said former Globe columnist David Farrell was wrong when he wrote in a Nov. 8, 1981, column that King called a judge to demand harsher sentences in a gang-rape case. But when asked if they believed the statement discredited King among ``any considerable and respectable class of the community,'' the jury answered no and decided the case in favor of the Globe. King needed to prevail on each question on the verdict slip to win. John Driscoll, the newspaper's editor, said the verdict upheld freedom of speech. ``After seven years of litigation, the jury has reaffirmed the right of all people _ including columnists and cartoonists _ to speak and write freely about the actions of government,'' Driscoll said. Farrell, 62, who resigned from the Globe in 1985 and now works in public relations, said he was relieved. ``I'm very pleased and I feel vindicated. I always felt I did a good job writing the column,'' Farrell said. Asked if he still believes King called the judge, Farrell said, ``Yes.'' King, who joined the Republican party after losing the September 1982 Democratic primary to Gov. Michael S. Dukakis, filed suit in January 1982 against the Globe and several editorial employees, seeking $3.6 million. King testified that the column amounted to a charge of obstruction of justice and struck him like ``an ice pick in the ribs,'' causing him to lose sleep on more than 1,000 nights. On cross-examination, King acknowledged that he never publicly denied making the call. Globe attorney Joseph Kociubes argued that King, who was thinking of suing the Globe before the column, did not show evidence of financial, social or political harm. Farrell testified that he was told about King's purported call to Judge Herbert Abrams by state Treasurer Robert Q. Crane, an old friend of Farrell whom he considered a reliable source about Massachusetts politics. Crane testified that he was the source, but could not recall who told him about the call. Both King and Abrams swore that no call took place. Under libel law, a public figure such as King has the burden of showing not only that a publication was false but that it defamed him. Further, the governor must have shown that the column was published with ``actual malice'' _ that is, with knowing falsity or with ``reckless disregard'' for the truth.
AP880219-0250 	X	Prices dipped in dull trading on the London Stock Exchange Friday, hurt in part by weakness on Wall Street. The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-stock index closed down 6.3 points, or 0.4 percent, at 1,729.8. Volume was a low 377.8 million shares, compared with 411.3 million Thursday. Prices were marked down at the opening in response to a fall Thursday in New York, brokers said. Prices barely moved for the next several hours because of a lack of trading and interest, they said. But prices slipped again in the afternoon when Wall Street failed to revive at its opening. The market currently is lacking direction because it is receiving contradictory signals about the direction of the economy, and is waiting for British companies to complete reporting their 1987 results, one broker said. Only a few companies have already reported their results, and the market needs some indication of how Britain's major banks and industrial concerns are doing, the broker said.
AP900906-0131 	X	About 30 nationalists gathered Thursday night at the foot of a statue of Vladimir Lenin in a Ukrainian city for a candlelight vigil to denounce 72 years of ``red terror,'' the Tass news agency reported. The demonstrators in Donetsk placed a garland of barbed wire around the base of the statue to the founder of the Soviet state, Tass reported. A ribbon attached to the wire said ``To V.I. Lenin _ on the 72nd Anniversary of Red Terror,'' the news agency said. Another streamer reportedly bore the words: ``100 million victims.'' Tass said the demonstrators, all members of a Ukrainian nationalist movement, held lighted candles in the vigil, which lasted about an hour. The Tass account was headlined ``Insulting Vigil at Lenin Monument in Donetsk,'' and said passers-by expressed anger and bewilderment at the protest. Police asked the demonstrators to disperse, and one of the participants tried to slash his veins to protest what he called illegal police actions, Tass reported. He received medical assistance, and the demonstrators dispersed, the news agency added. Donetsk, the center of the eastern Ukraine's Don River coal basin, was the site this summer of a one-day strike by miners demanding less interference from the Communist Party. Miners in Donetsk also joined a long, bitter coal strike in the summer of 1989 over low wages and consumer goods shortages. Statues of Lenin have been vandalized with increasing frequency across the Soviet Union in recent months, and some have been dismantled on the orders of local authorities, to the dismay of the Soviet leadership.
AP880918-0076 	X	The remains of Hurricane Gilbert passed across Texas Sunday, swelling rivers as hundreds of people began clearing debris from homes and businesses damaged by at least 41 tornadoes spun off by the storm. Bob Gibson, controller at the state's Emergency Operating Center in Austin, said Sunday night that his office was monitoring areas where flash flood and tornado watches were in effect until Sunday night, but had no reports of significant flooding. ``It's been actually pretty light tonight,'' he said. ``I think we're still lucky.'' Nearly 2 inches of rain fell Sunday at Quanah, northwest of Wichita Falls, which had a thunderstorm and high wind Sunday night, and some roads were under water in Ozona in West Texas Sunday afternoon, the National Weather Service reported. The remains of Gilbert were moving out of Texas and into Oklahoma late Sunday night, the weather service said. Forecasters told residents of central Oklahoma and southeast Kansas to watch for possible flooding early Monday. In Texas, tornadoes touched down just to the west of Abilene Sunday at Lake Sweetwater and at Eskota, but only minor damage was reported, the weather service said. A total of 41 tornadoes swept the state as the remains of Gilbert headed northward, officials said. Two people were reported killed, both in San Antonio late Friday and Saturday. State officials said they did not expect to have a dollar estimate of damages throughout the state for a few days. Trees and roofs were blown away at Kelly Air Force Base, causing $3 million damage. Scores of apartments were destroyed or damaged at one complex. Telephone and electric service was knocked out in areas. An air-conditioning system at a Veterans Administration Hospital was damaged, prompting Mayor Henry Cisneros to declare a state of emergency so replacement parts could be flown in and the transfer of patients avoided. ``San Antonio was very lucky,'' Cisneros said. ``We could have had 15, 20, 25 or 50 people killed in this incident.'' In northeastern Mexico, Coast Guard aircraft picked up people threatened by swollen rivers Sunday, but a dam thought to be in danger was re-evaluated and declared safe, said Laureen Chernow of the state Emergency Management Council. At least 98 deaths and billions of dollars in damage were blamed on the storm in the Caribbean and Mexico. An additional 90 deaths were confirmed and more than 100 others were feared drowned after a rain-swollen river overturned four buses in Monterrey, Mexico. The Rio Grande in Terrell County in southwest Texas rose 30 feet overnight and was up to 12 feet above flood stage Sunday evening, officials said. But high water that had forced the closing of two farm-to-market roads had subsided, said Sonny Holleyman, a Terrell County deputy sheriff. The roads were reopened and a rock slide that also blocked one of those roads had been cleared, he said. Authorities in the Texas Hill Country, a ranching and farming area, kept an eye on the flood-prone Guadalupe River, but no flooding was reported. In San Antonio, telephone and utility crews worked to restore service, and residents of apartments and houses hit by tornadoes began cleaning up. A twister struck a mobile home near downtown early Saturday, killing 59-year-old Emily Dickens, who was thrown about 100 feet from her bedroom. Recently widowed, she was sharing the trailer with her son and daughter-in-law. ``We're all pretty much in a daze. We really don't know how to react to anything right now,'' said the daughter-in-law, Deborah Dickens. ``We'll take one day at a time. We'll clean up and eventually we'll get our own house put up if we get some money to buy lumber and tin.'' On Friday, a man was killed when a tornado knocked a tree onto his house in San Antonio. Sylvia Sulsh, 54, was taking a shower when the tornado struck her third-story apartment at The Lodge apartments, where at least 120 units were destroyed, 264 others damaged and some 300 tenants left homeless. ``There was all this insulation all over me in the shower. I got out of the shower and braced myself against the door and then I saw all the roof fall down in the living room,'' Ms. Sulsh said. ``I was open to the world, so I grabbed my nightgown and robe. I was more worried about getting my clothes on than being sucked out of the shower by the wind.''
AP881003-0010 	X	A keen-eyed captain of a West German cargo ship rescued two British fishermen who were close to death after six hours in the English Channel, Falmouth coast guard said today. ``They were just two heads bobbing in the water,'' said coast guard duty officer David Mayall. ``They were very lucky to be seen.'' With water temperature at 59 degrees, ``we would expect people to die after that length of time in the water,'' Mayall said. ``It was pure luck we spotted them,'' said Capt. Gunter Feicks of the Hamburg-registered Jan Becker, 3,170 tons, which was en route from Rotterdam to Waterford in the Irish Republic. Fishermen Fred Steel and Gregory Lett, both age 38 from Cornwall, grabbed life belts and jumped into the sea at 2 a.m. Sunday when their 60-foot boat, Semper Parates, sank from an unknown cause in 10 minutes off Land's End. Six hours later, the freighter passed by and Feicks, looking through his binoculars, spotted something in the water ``that shouldn't have been there.'' The ship called for help and a Royal Navy helicopter winched the two men from the sea and flew them to a hospital in Truro. They were suffering from hypothermia _ subnormal body temperature _ but were comfortable, the hospital said.
AP880326-0134 	X	Fire swept through a three-story apartment building early Saturday, killing six immigrants, including two children, as they huddled in their kitchen, authorities said. The fire started in a vacant second-floor apartment and spread to the hallway and third floor, said Newark Fire Department spokesman Larry Krieger. ``There was no one in the apartment when it started,'' he said. ``It was being remodeled and someone could have left something on.'' Three men, a woman and two young children died when their third-floor apartment was engulfed by flames, Krieger said. The victims were found in the kitchen, he said. Another man in the apartment, Juan Rodriguez, managed to escape by jumping out a window. Krieger said the seven, natives of the Dominican Republic, had moved in less than a week earlier. Identities of the victims were not immediately released because relatives had not been notified, Krieger said. He said one child was about 3 months old, the other 2 years old. Rodriguez and five residents of another apartment were taken to University Hospital, Krieger said, but hospital officials said their records indicated that only five people were treated. Three of the five, including Rodriguez, were admitted for observation and were listed in fair condition, hospital officials said.
AP900825-0061 	X	President Turgut Ozal of Turkey tells of glancing at the television screen just in time to see and hear President Bush saying he was about to call him up. The Turkish president walked into his office and picked up the ringing telephone. It was Bush. That's the way it often is in the Persian Gulf confrontation. Cable News Network's constant, live broadcasts from scenes of crisis and diplomacy lets leaders a world apart look over one another's shoulders as events unfold. In another era, information on crisis situations moved to diplomats and warriors over secret, coded, back channels. The world knew only what these movers and shakers wanted known. The Gulf crisis is broadcast around the world in color, often live, 24 hours a day on CNN. Among the most avid watchers are the world leaders who make the news, including Britain's Margaret Thatcher, France's Francois Mitterrand, Libya's Moammar Gadhafi and King Fahd of Saudi Arabia. CNN staffers in Washington are reminded of this by a photograph tacked to their bulletin board. It shows President Bush and his top advisers watching an Iraqi newscast, the CNN logo prominent in one corner. ABC's Ted Koppel, broadcasting from Baghdad, paid a rival the ultimate compliment by saying that the Iraqi foreign ministry was following events by watching CNN. And Turkey's Ozal, a key player, says he has kept his television tuned to CNN since Iraq troops crossed into Kuwait Aug. 2. An Associated Press reporter arriving for an interview recently found the president chuckling over a brawl between the New York Mets and Philadelphia Phillies. Each morning, Iraqi television sends CNN's Atlanta headquarters two or three messages advising what stories it plans to carry. Such a message might advise that ``at 11:30 a.m. Eastern Time, Iraqi TV will be carrying a message from President Saddam Hussein to President Bush.'' Television has become a weapon in this war of nerves, just as it was when the Ayatollah Khomeini allowed U.S. camera crews to film frenzied mobs of Iranians denouncing ``The Great Satan'' America during the 1979-1980 hostage crisis. And it's getting on President Bush's nerves. Bush complained to reporters this week that they were asking harder questions of him than of Saddam Hussein in Baghdad. Ed Turner, CNN's executive vice president for news gathering, said the network tapes most Iraqi TV offerings and screens them before they are put on the network. But on Thursday, when Hussein appeared on television for 50 minutes with a roomful of English-speaking hostages, CNN stayed with Iraqi TV the entire time. The other American networks showed excerpts of the bizarre, profoundly disturbing scene. Turner, no relation to CNN founder Ted Turner, shrugs off any suggestion that the network is being used for propaganda by the Iraqis. ``The technology that permits all this is not going to be disinvented,'' he said. ``When we worry about being used or manipulated, or becoming a part of this story as opposed to being chroniclers, it seems to me that since the technology exists, it's a question of using it responsibly.'' Robert MacNeil, co-anchor of ``The MacNeil-Lehrer Hour'' on the Public Broadcasting service, said television is doing what wire services and newspapers have been doing for more than a century. ``It's just that television has speeded it up,'' MacNeil said. ``It's a kind of television version of the hot line that Kennedy and Khrushchev set up after the Cuban Missile Crisis.'' The international audience for CNN's broadcast is awesome. The network's broadcasts are seen in 95 countries, including 25 in Europe, 3 in the Middle East and 10 in Africa. ``We're virtually the primary source of news for many people, including many principals involved in the current crisis,'' said Peter Vesey, director of CNN International. ``It's gratifying, but it emphasizes once again our responsibility as journalists not only to get it fast, but to get it right.'' Ted Turner began with 1.7 million domestic subscribers and now has over 55 million. At any given time the evening newscasts of the other three commercial networks out draw CNN 10-to-1, but that is not a valid comparison since the cable network's audience is spread over a 24-hour day. Vesey estimates that CNN has nine million subscribers worldwide, but its audience is far larger, since the service is available unscrambled to people who have the right kind of equipment, but don't pay. The network observed its 10th anniversary last month and Newsweek, describing a celebration, headlined its piece ``CNN is the network of the new world it helped create.'' National Public Radio's Daniel Schorr, who was with CNN at the start, called it ``The world's intercom.'' CNN took out a three-age advertisement this month in the industry publication, Electronic Media, to brag about how far it's come. ``They laughed when we decided to create an all-news network,'' said the first page. ``Nobody's laughing now,'' says the second.
AP900106-0100 	X	Nicolae Ceausescu was a morose boy who dreamed of power while fellow children in his hometown pursued more innocent ideals, the former dictator's cousin recalled Saturday. Florea Ceausescu, who has spent his life a stone's throw from his infamous cousin's modest childhood home, depicted him as a cruel and selfish man with no time for anyone outside his immediate clique, and other long-time Scornicesti residents concurred. ``Even as a youngster he had the feeling that he would lead the people,'' the 71-year-old said of his cousin, nodding toward Ceausescu's first home. ``He was a cruel man, who worked only for his own people and had no feelings for outsiders.'' Florea Ceausescu lives across the street from the three-room hut where Ceausescu spent his first 12 years. He said Ceausescu showed no interest in neighbors on his rare visits, ``and we had no chance to talk to him because he was always surrounded by bodyguards.'' Municipal officials painted a picture of an inward, unapproachable man, whose dreaded Securitate secret police took over the town of 13,000 whenever the dictator visited. ``They would never announce his coming,'' Mayor Ilie Manea said. ``Around 500 Securitate would converge in town, and in the surrounding hills and forests, and the mayor's and local police's only job was to find enough people to get together a cheering crowd.'' The town, about 120 miles northwest of Bucharest, showed little sign Saturday of the violent upheaval that toppled Ceausescu and led to his and his wife's execution Dec. 25. But there was evidence of the depth of feeling against the dictator and his clique. The dirt floors of Ceausescu's childhood home were covered with shards of glass from broken portraits of the iron-fisted leader and his parents. The inside of a luxurious adjoining villa belonging to Ceausescu's sister, Elena Bobulescu, was in disarray, its cupboards ripped open and their contents strewn about. Florea Ceausescu, his face bearing uncanny resemblance to his cousin except for several day's growth of beard and deep lines etched by a hard life, smiled when asked if his name would cause him trouble. ``I will change my name,'' he declared. ``Everyone will now say that we are all bad because of the name.'' Ceausescu said he had little contact with his cousin after the future leader moved to Bucharest at age 12 and became an apprentice cobbler. But he recalled a moody, strange youth with a sense of mission. ``He would play for awhile, and then he would suddenly stop for no reason and say, `I've had enough,''' he said. ``He was a little strange. He never laughed, he was serious all the time.'' Nicolae Ceausescu's thirst for power was at least initally intertwined with idealistic strivings to improve the lot of a backward people, his cousin suggested. Shortly after his move to Bucharest, the young Ceausescu was arrested for illegal activities tied to his activism in the Communist Party, and he reappeared briefly in Scornicesti at age 14 after two years in prison. Before World War II, the Communists were a tiny group viewed as anarchist troublemakers by Romanian authorities. ``My father asked him `Why did you go to jail?'' Florea Ceausescu said. ``He answered, `I went to jail so we can work the land with heavy machinery and we can raise production.''' But all idealism appeared to be extinguished in the last years of Ceausescu's 24-year tenure at the helm of the country. The 1980s were marked by growing privation across the nation. The meager amount of national income left by Ceausescu's drive to pay off a massive foreign debt was consumed by extravagant construction projects of questionable value. ``The only thing important to Nicolae was not people but building monuments,'' his cousin alleged, saying his own small house nearly fell victim to the dictator's grandiose scheme to raze traditional village homes and move their owners into impersonal apartment blocks.
AP900103-0230 	X	A proposed merger of financially troubled CenTrust Bank with a bank owned by a billionaire cruise ship magnate was announced late Wednesday as part of a plan to ward off regulators from the Miami-based savings and loan. The non-binding agreement calls for CenTrust and Ensign Bank to begin negotiations to reorganize under a new holding company. The merger would include a cash infusion from Ensign's parent, Hamilton Holding Co., which is controlled by Carnival Cruise Lines Inc. principal owner Ted Arison. The merger would be contingent upon several conditions, including federal approval of CenTrust's plans to sell 63 of its 71 branches to Great Western Bank of Beverly Hills, Calif., according to a statement by both companies. Ensign Financial Corp., which operates New York-based Ensign Bank, has 27 branches in metropolitan New York and in Florida and reported federally insured assets in 1988 of about $2 billion. Last year, Ensign called off a $170 million takeover bid for Anchor Savings Bank of New York, a merger that would have created the nation's fifth-largest savings bank with assets of about $10.3 billion. The latest proposed merger is intended halt pressure from regulators seeking to reorganize CenTrust, which was criticized for its heavy investment in an expensive art collection and the lavish lifesytle of Chairman David Paul. In December, the federal Office of Thrift Supervision ordered CenTrust to sell its art collection, some of which had been kept at Paul's home, as well as limousines, a corporate jet and a sailboat. It also forbid CenTrust from increasing its executives' salaries or paying dividends to stockholders. State Comptroller Gerald Lewis on Dec. 20 gave Paul 21 days to resign or contest the complaint. A statement released by CenTrust said Paul would ``vigorously oppose'' removal. Lewis' complaint claimed Paul violated his duty as officer of a financial institution by using CenTrust employees to perform personal services, charging the company for personal bills and buying luxuries. It cited $30 million in art bought with CenTrust funds, including $12 million paid for Peter Paul Rubens' ``Portrait of a Man as Mars.'' The complaint also questioned Paul's $4.8 million salary from January 1988 to September 1989, when the thrift suffered pre-tax operating losses of $76 million. Last week, a U.S. District Court judge in Washington refused an appeal by CenTrust and ordered the bank to take back a $310,000 bonus paid to Paul in October. CenTrust, with $9 billion in assets, is Florida's largest thrift and the 22nd largest in the country. The statement issued late Wednesday did not place a price on the proposed merger or indicate how much would be paid to CenTrust shareholders.
AP881123-0038 	X	A train struck a car Tuesday at a railroad crossing in fog, killing five members of a family in the car and injuring three others, authorities said. The parents and three of their children were pronounced dead at the scene, authorities said. The other three children were taken to hospitals. The children were all under age 9. No one in the train was injured, and the train was sent on its way, according to the Highway Patrol. The crash occurred on a rural gravel road about five miles west of Valley City, said Dolph Oldenburg, a Barnes County correctional officer. State Highway Patrolman Roger Haga said the engineer of the westbound Burlington Northern train blew the engine's whistle before crossing the intersection. But fog covered the area, and the driver of the northbound car apparently did not see nor hear the train, the patrolman said. Two children were taken to Mercy Hospital in Valley City. One child wandered away from the wreck and was found about an hour later and taken to the hospital, Haga said. Mercy Hospital spokeswoman Connie Reed said a 5-year-old girl was transferred by ambulance to a Fargo hospital where she was in critical condition Tuesday night, and two boys, ages 4 and 6, were in stable condition in the Valley City hospital. The identities of the victims were not released. No other details were available.
AP900709-0086 	X	Leaders of the world's richest nations began their 16th economic summit today, urged by President Bush to harness ``the power and energy of free wills and free markets'' to bolster the troubled economies of Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union. The seven leaders were deeply divided on how and when to provide financial assistance sought by Mikhail Gorbachev, but officials said a team of western bankers and other experts would be sent to assess Soviet needs. As the meetings began, the leaders lined up ``about half on one side, and half on the other'' over how to extend financial assistance to Mikhail Gorbachev, said White House chief of staff John Sununu. Bush has said he has ``big problems'' with extending direct aid to Moscow until it reduces military spending, moves more forcefully toward a free-market system and curtails the $5 billion a year subsidy to Cuba. A Gorbachev aide said Monday that western aid must be unconditional, explaining, ``We aren't taking orders.'' Bush met this morning with Francois Mitterrand and a French spokesman said both men stuck to their position: Bush opposes direct aid _ at least for now _ while Mitterrand favors ``all aid that is serious and useful.'' Officials said the leaders would approve an assessment team to recommend applications for western assistance. Sununu said the study might be conducted by a mixture of western financing agencies, including the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Bush is offering the Soviets technical assistance for transportation and agriculture and advice on developing free-market mechanisms. Sununu pointed out that the Soviets currently lose almost half their grain crop through faulty storage. Sununu noted that different countries view Soviet circumstances in different ways, perhaps a hint that Bush will not staunchly oppose direct aid from France, West Germany and Italy _ nations that are ready to proceed. Also meeting here are leaders from Britain, Japan, Canada and the European Economic Community. ``We are called upon as allies and as friends to work toward decisions that will bring new stability and prosperity to the world, by tapping the power and energy of free wills and free markets,'' Bush said in a statement opening the summit. ``These economic summits have become a framework for frank, constructive dialogue, a dialogue for progress that I believe will be advanced greatly in these next three days. A new world of freedom lays before us. Hopeful. Confident. A world where peace endures, where commerce has conscience, where all that seems possible is possible. ``So let us begin, in good faith, to set the stage for the new millennium.'' Soviet aid questions were a highly charged and undecided issue as the three-day summit began. Decisions were likely to come Wednesday in a final communique. From Moscow came a fresh plea for financial assistance. Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze told reporters at the Communist Party Congress,``I feel it would be advantageous, for us and the West.'' He said Moscow was looking to the west for ``credit, technical cooperation, personnel training, joint ventures and joint projects.'' Meanwhile, the summit partners faced a tangle of their own differences over trade and the environment. Europeans are resisting Bush's demand for phasing out farm subsidies over the next 10 years and, together with Canada, are pushing for agreement on new steps to halt global warming. Sununu sniped at European critics of Bush's go-slow policy on curbing carbon dioxide and other pollutants blamed for warming the global environment. ``I think West Germany got a lot of good grades for rhetoric,'' he said on ABC. ``If you take a good look at what the United States has actually done in terms of cleaning up our environment ... I don't think the United States has to take a back seat to anyone.'' Yet, a prominent U.S. environmental group, the Wilderness Society, quickly chimed in to say, ``the U.S. gets a failing grade, no matter how Governor Sununu tries to rejigger the numbers.'' Before calling the summit into session on the campus of Rice University, Bush met separately with Mitterand and West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl to discuss their $15-billion aid proposal for Moscow. The world has changed dramatically since the last economic summit in Paris. At that time, the West was considering a limited aid package to encourage the beginings of reform efforts in Poland and Hungary. Since that time the Berlin Wall has crumbled and most of the communist nations of Eastern Europe have been swept away, leaving the West groping for a way to respond to the dramatic changes. Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady said today the chief message from Houston will be to urge East European nations to undertake necessary economic reforms before they receive Western assistance. ``There's no sense in pouring money into a system that isn't ready to receive it,'' he said on NBC.'' Despite temperatures in the 90s and humidity topping 80 percent, the city of Houston went all out to welcome the heads of government, their contingents and hordes of reporters. Air conditioning was pumped onto the outddor platform to make the arrival ceremony comfortable for the leaders. Bush was host Sunday night to a pre-summit rodeo, complete with bareback riding, barrel racing and a calf scramble. Japan's Toshiki Kaifu, a first-time summiteer, waived his cowboy hat as if he'd been doing it all his life. Mitterrand, Italian Prime Minister Giulio Andreotti and Kohl delayed their arrival until today. Kohl was in Rome to watch his West German team win soccer's World Cup; Andreotti was there to present it. Bush had been in Houston since Friday, arriving from London, where he saw the NATO allies adopt a U.S. proposal to rewrite NATO's war-fighting strategy as a way of lessening tensions with the Soviet Union. Bush, as summit host, received a letter from Gorbachev appealing for western help. Gorbachev's latest plea was expected to be aired fully during a working dinner tonight. Pressing the Soviet case, foreign ministry spokesman Gennady Gerasimov said Moscow was shrinking its military and moving toward a market-price system that would curtail Moscow's huge subsidies to Cuba.
AP900317-0138 	X	Bulgaria may send prosecutors to Britain to investigate the 1978 killing of a Bulgarian exile stabbed to death with a poisoned umbrella, the Foreign Office said Friday. Britain has blamed Bulgaria for the death of Georgi Markov, who fled to London in 1969 and worked for the Bulgarian service of the British Broadcasting Corp. He was killed by a poison pellet injected by an umbrella tip as he walked across London's Waterloo Bridge in September 1978. British officials suspect the murder was the work of agents of Bulgaria's Communist government, which was controlled by hard-liners until last year's reforms swept much of Eastern Europe. Britain has pressed the Bulgarian government to take responsibility. A Foreign Office spokesman said Bulgarian Ambassador Dimitar Zhulev told British officials Friday that Bulgaria was willing to send prosecutors to discuss the case with British officials. No date was given for a visit, and there were no further details.
AP880926-0186 	X	Lt. Gen. Henri Namphy is broke and will have to leave the luxurious suite he has occupied since fleeing here after a coup in neighboring Haiti unseated him Sept. 17, an official said Monday. Deputy Foreign Minister Fabio Herrera Cabral said Namphy was forced to leave Haiti so quickly _ only hours after the coup carried out by the Presidential Guard _ that he did not have time to bring money. Namphy's bills at the Dominican Concorde Hotel will be paid by the Dominican government but he will have to leave the hotel by week's end, the official said. In a televised interview, Herrera said Namphy has received some economic aid from a group of Haitian businessmen residing in the Dominican Republic and from Dominican friends. The deposed general is accompanied in exile by his wife, Gabrielle, and daughter, Melissa. Herrera denied that Namphy had made an official petition for permanent political asylum in the Dominican Republic, as was reported by a Foreign Ministry source last week. However, he admitted that Namphy has made it obvious he wants to stay in the Dominican Republic, which shares the Caribbean island of Hispaniola with Haiti. Herrera indicated that Namphy's presence in the Dominican Republic will not affect relations with Haiti. ``He (Namphy) says that he was never a politician, that he was a military man, that his military career is over now and that he is not interested in any political or military position,'' Herrera said, speaking about discussions he had with the former Haitian leader. ``It seems that Namphy never thought he would have to leave his country and ... because of the circumstances under which he had to do it he was unable to bring any money,'' Herrera said. The deputy foreign minister said Namphy's friends are searching for a modest but secure house for the deposed general and his family to move into by the end of this week. Herrera also denied rumors that Franck Romain, the ousted mayor of Port-au-Prince, left the Dominican Embassy in the Haitian capital. He said Romain, his wife, daughter and a group of about 10 other persons are still in the embassy waiting for the Haitian government to grant them safe conduct out of the country. Romain is the reputed leader of thugs known as Tonton Macoutes and is suspected of having ordered the attack at the St. Jean Bosco Church that left 13 persons dead and 77 wounded. The Sept. 11 massacre was mentioned by the soldiers who overthrew Namphy as one of the reasons for carrying out the coup. Namphy remains secluded in his hotel suite, refusing to speak with reporters. A waiter who is the only person authorized by security personnel to attend to Namphy's needs in the hotel said Namphy spends the day in white short pants, either reading or looking out the window of his suite. His wife and daughter also spend most of the time reading, said the waiter, who asked that his name not be used.
AP880301-0296 	X	William H. Spoor, returning as chief executive officer of the Pillsbury Co., said Tuesday the company has no intention of selling its Burger King subsidiary despite the chain's flat performance in recent months. Spoor, named Monday to replace John M. Stafford as Pillsbury's chairman and chief executive officer, also announced several management changes at the Minneapolis-based parent company. On Wall Street, Pillsbury stock rose 25 cents a share to $37 in trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Burger King, which generates 40 percent of Pillsbury's sales, reportedly has seen its share of the hamburger chain market fall in recent months after rapid growth in the mid-1980s. Burger King's share fell to about 16.8 percent in early 1987 from a 1986 high of 17.4 percent, The Wall Street Journal reported in December. The company has said its average sales per store have been flat at about $1 million for the past two years. ``I want to say without qualification that Burger King is central to Pillsbury,'' Spoor said in a statement at the conclusion of a two-day meeting of Pillsbury's board of directors. ``That was true yesterday, it is true today, and it remains true for the company's strategic future,'' he said. Spoor's statement made no mention of Pillsbury's other restaurant businesses _ Steak & Ale, Godfather's and Bennigan's _ and a spokesman said neither he nor Stafford was available for comment Tuesday afternoon. Spoor had retired from Pillsbury in 1985, but remained on the company's board of directors. His return as CEO was announced Monday in a statement that gave no reasons for Stafford's resignation. ``I pledge to take whatever steps are necessary in the next three months so that we will enter fiscal 1989 with momentum and a solid portfolio of businesses capable of returning superior shareholder value,'' Spoor said in his statement. ``We have a clear strategy that will lead us successfully into the 1990s. fiscal 1988 is a disappointment in many ways, but our future is bright and fiscal 1989, which begins June 1, will be an excellent year and gratifying to our shareholders.'' Pillsbury in fiscal 1987 reported its first earnings decline in 16 years: $182 million, or $2.10 a share, down from $208 million, or $2.38 a share, in fiscal 1986. Stock analysts who were projecting fiscal 1988 earnings of about $2.80 a share were told by Stafford in February to lower the projections by about 30 cents a share, a Pillsbury spokesman said. Spoor on Tuesday announced four promotions in the top management of the company: _John L. Morrison, was elected a Pillsbury executive vice president and was named chairman, U.S. Foods. He was formerly a Pillsbury vice president and president, International Foods. _Thomas R. McBurney, executive vice president, was named chairman, International Foods. McBurney served previously as chairman, U.S. Foods. _Jerry W. Levin, executive vice president, corporate development and chairman of The Haagen-Dazs Co., was given the additional responsibility for Pillsbury's Industrial Foods Business. Industrial Foods was previously a part of U.S. Foods. _James R. Behnke, senior vice president for technology, was made responsible for Pillsbury's research and development activities worldwide.
AP900415-0013 	X	You won't be through with taxes for the year even if you beat the midnight Monday deadline for filing your federal return. The average American will have to work through May 5 to satisfy the tax collectors. If that prediction by the Tax Foundation proves accurate, it will be the latest ``Tax Freedom Day'' on record and two days later than 1989. The reason is simple, the nonpartisan research organization said Sunday in announcing the mythical date: ``Tax increases will outpace the growth in individuals' income during 1990.'' Tax Freedom Day is the foundation's estimate of how long it would take an average person to pay his or her state, federal and local taxes if all income went for taxes until they were all paid for the year 1990. The calculations assume that all taxes are paid by individuals, including those collected from corporations. Until this year, the latest date was May 4, 1981, before a big tax reduction took effect. The foundation said subsequent watering down of several deductions, increases in Social Security taxes and state and local taxes, and a gradual economic slowing will have wiped out that reduction. For the millions of couples and individuals still struggling with 1989 returns, the Internal Revenue Service announced that its toll-free telephone service would remain open late Monday night to answer technical tax questions. The Postal Service said most post offices in cities with at least 30,000 population planned to station clerks at curbside to receive returns. Neither the IRS nor the Postal Service estimated how many returns were likely to be filed Monday night. However, the IRS said it expects to receive about 23 million this week _ or one of every five that will be filed this year. About 6 million couples and individuals unable to file their returns on time were expected to receive a four-month extension by filing Form 4868 instead. The extension is automatic _ but only if Form 4868 is accompanied by a check for estimated taxes owed. Another 650,000 or so Americans abroad, including military personnel, qualified automatically for a two-month extension just by having their main business, home or duty station outside the United States and Puerto Rico. A number of people have tax years that ended on days other than Dec. 31, 1989, and thus have other filing deadlines. Still others will simply miss the filing deadline, do nothing about it and subject themselves to separate penalties for filing late and paying late. Taxpayers who file their returns with the IRS Service Center in Andover, Mass. _ residents of New England and most of upstate New York _ have until midnight Tuesday to file. That is because Monday is Patriots Day, a legal holiday, in Massachusetts. When all the returns are counted later this year, they are expected to total 111 million, an increase of about 1 million from 1989. About four of every five returns are qualifying for refunds, slightly above last year's figure. Refunds are averaging more than $850. If IRS estimates of how long it takes to prepare a return are correct, procrastinators should not wait too late Monday before beginning the task. The agency guesses the average person requires 2 hours and 32 minutes to learn about the law and Form 1040, another 3 hours 10 minutes to fill it out, and 35 minutes to copy, assemble and mail it. That adds up to 6 hours and 17 minutes _ not counting the 3 hours and 7 minutes of recordkeeping required. And that total does not include the time required to do a Schedule A for itemized deductions (1 hour and 47 minutes plus recordkeeping), a Schedule B for interest and dividends (44 minutes) or any other supplemental form. While the conservative Tax Foundation was highlighting the overall growth of taxes, the Democratic Study Group was marking the filing deadline by decrying a shift of tax burden away from the rich. The organization, which includes most liberal Democrats in the House, released an analysis indicating that since 1980, the total federal tax burden for the three-fifths of the population with low to middle incomes rose, the next highest 20 percent realized a net cut of only about $45 and ``the 1 percent of households with the very highest incomes ... (had taxes cut) by an average of more than $12,000.''
AP900802-0141 	X	A frail, repentant Roswell Gilbert regained his freedom Thursday after spending more than 5 years in prison for the 1985 ``mercy killing'' of his ailing wife. The 81-year-old Gilbert acknowledged publicly for the first time that he was wrong to kill his wife of 51 years, who suffered from Alzheimer's disease and osteoporosis. ``I shouldn't have killed my wife, now I know that,'' said Gilbert, whose case focused national attention on the killing of an ailing loved one. ``It's difficult to explain to anyone who hasn't been through this trauma, a mental trauma really,'' said Gilbert. He said his wife's illness ``created just a complete state of desperation in my mind ... it's a lousy excuse, but that's what it was.'' Gilbert shot his wife, Emily, twice with a 9mm Luger in March 1985 in their Fort Lauderdale apartment. He was serving a mandatory minimum prison term of 25 years on a murder conviction when he was granted clemency on humanitarian grounds Wednesday by Gov. Bob Martinez and the Florida Cabinet. Gilbert, who suffers from heart and lung disease, wants to regain some of the 40 pounds he lost in prison and ``recoup my health.'' He chuckled at reports that his death may be imminent. ``I'm a tough old rooster ... don't believe it,'' said Gilbert, who said he would probably ignore his daughter's pleas to stop smoking. ``Daddy has very bad emphysema and one of the main things I'm going to do is really insist he quit smoking,'' said daughter Martha ``Skipper'' Moran, the Gilberts' only child. The retired engineer was examined in January and a medical report showed he suffered from heart and lung disease and was considered ``at high risk of death at any time,'' because of his age and physical condition. Gilbert, who left the North Florida Reception Center with a handful of possessions in a small brown paper bag, described prison as a ``human zoo.'' ``It's been plain awful for a freedom-loving person like myself,'' he said. Besides a hamburger, a shot of bourbon and a nice soft bed, Gilbert said he was looking forward to seeing his three grown grandchildren soon. ``I haven't had a good look at them for a long time,'' he said. He left the prison for a friend's home in an undisclosed location. His daughter said she expected him to resettle in Fort Lauderdale. The lawyer who prosecuted Gilbert at the murder trial, Kelly Hancock, said he was relieved that the state decided to free Gilbert. ``His health is deteriorated, and I think his release puts to an end a very, very tragic case _ a case that made us all more aware of the problems of the sick and the elderly have,'' said Hancock, who's now in private practice and publicly sought Gilbert's release in recent weeks. Actor Robert Young, who portrayed Gilbert in a 1987 television movie, ``Mercy or Murder?,'' also said he was elated with the news of Gilbert's clemency. ``That's sensational,'' said the 83-year-old Young, best known for his roles in the TV series ``Father Knows Best,'' and ``Marcus Welby, M.D.'' Although the two men never met, Young said he spoke with Gilbert many times by telephone. ``We had wonderful chats,'' said Young. ``There was no self-pity in him at all. It was a remarkable experience for me to play the role and get to know the man.'' Mrs. Moran, who lives in Baltimore, said she believes her mother would say: ``It's about time they let him out.''
AP900131-0010 	X	President Bush is expected to sign legislation that provides for trade sanctions against China, but allows the president to suspend them if he finds it is in the national interest. The Senate voted 98-0 late Tuesday for the measure, which was passed by the House in November before Congress' two-month holiday break. Prompted by Beijing's crackdown last June on pro-democracy demonstrators, the sanctions are part of a $9.7 billion measure authorizing activities of the State Department for the 1990 and 1991 fiscal years. The legislation would suspend: _Financial underwriting through the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for U.S. companies doing business in China; _Aid under the Trade and Development Program; _Issuing licenses for controlled munitions or crime control and detection equipment; _Export of U.S.-built satellites, certain bilateral nuclear cooperation and liberalization of multilateral export controls. Most of the sanctions reflect actions Bush himself had already taken in the wake of the bloody suppression of pro-democracy demonstrations in Beijing on June 4, and their place in the bill is regarded as mostly symbolic. The administration already has begun to lift some of those sanctions, including the one barring export of satellites, citing improved conditions in China. The bill approved Tuesday would permit Bush to terminate any of the sanctions if significant political reform occurs in China or if Bush finds waiver of the sanctions is ``in the national interest'' of the United States. There was almost no debate on the bill, in contrast to the showdown last week over whether to uphold Bush's veto of a measure that would have protected Chinese students in the United States from deportation. The Senate narrowly upheld the veto after the White House waged an all-out campaign to pressure Republican senators to back the president. An administration official described the fight as ``not a battle over how to handle China, but a battle over who should be handling China.'' Democrats used the occasion to again accuse Bush of too-cozy relations with a regime that has done little to adhere to U.S. human rights standards. The largest amounts in the bill _ $3.3 billion this year and $3.7 billion next year _ are for the State Department, primarily for salaries and the expenses of running embassies and consulates around the world. Also included are about $2 billion over two years for the U.S. Information Agency and $600 million for the Board for International Broadcasting, which runs Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty. Not voting were Sens. Daniel Inouye, D-Hawaii, and Malcolm Wallop, R-Wyo.
AP900601-0048 	X	President Roh Tae-woo will invite Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev to visit South Korea when the two meet next week, newspapers said today. A North Korean official denounced the planned meeting. Several Seoul newspapers quoted high-ranking government sources as saying Gorbachev will be invited to visit Korea after his trip to Japan, planned for next April. The Roh-Gorbachev meeting Monday will be the first between leaders of the two countries, which have no diplomatic ties. The Soviet Union is a close ally of Seoul's rival, communist North Korea, to which it provides arms. North Korea's official news agency today quoted a Foreign Ministry official as denouncing the planned meeting between Roh and Gorbachev. ``If President Gorbachev has a meeting with Roh Tae-woo, which we do not think will take place, it will be a serious political issue,'' the official was quoted as saying. The report by the Korean Central News Agency was monitored in Tokyo. ``We consider that the president of the Soviet Union, an ally of ours, is quite able to analyze and judge what a serious political consequence will be entailed by his meeting with Roh Tae-woo, who is seeking only the split of Korea,'' the report said. The Korean Peninsula was divided into the communist North and capitalist South at the end of World War II in 1945. The two sides fought the Korean War in 1950-53. A South Korean official said today that the agenda for the Roh-Gorbachev talks will include the normalization of relations between Seoul and Moscow, economic cooperation and peace measures on the divided Korean peninsula. Kim Kim Chong-hwi, presidential assistant for foreign affairs, expressed optimism about the chances for formal relations. ``The meeting itself shows that the Soviet Union recognizes the Republic of (South) Korea,'' he was quoted as telling the Dong-A Ilbo newspaper. Dong-A Ilbo said Roh and Gorbachev are expected to agree on an early establishment of diplomatic ties, possibly before September. Seoul officials hope the Roh-Gorbachev meeting will help ease tension on the peninsula. They believe improved ties with the Soviet Union will result in better relations between the two Koreas.
AP880429-0249 	X	Gov. Rose Mofford filed amended financial-disclosure forms Friday to cover transactions omitted from sworn documents she filed over the past 10 years, and she apologized for what she called an honest mistake. Mrs. Mofford's predecessor, Evan Mecham, who was impeached and removed by the Legislature earlier this year, is under criminal indictment on charges of omitting a $350,000 campaign loan from his disclosure forms. Questions about Mrs. Mofford's forms had been raised a week earlier by an Associated Press story detailing discrepancies between her filings and other state and county records, and Attorney General Bob Corbin began an investigation Monday. Failure to file a complete disclosure statement can be a felony or a misdemeanor under Arizona law. The amended forms covered land, loan and partnership transactions omitted from earlier forms filed by Mrs. Mofford. ``I now believe that these items should have been disclosed earlier,'' she said at a news conference. ``I made an honest mistake.'' As secretary of state for 10 years before becoming governor upon Mecham's impeachment, Mrs. Mofford was in charge of the office where disclosure forms are filed, and she said that aspect was especially embarrassing. ``I'm very sorry,'' she said. ``I want to emphasize that it was never my intent to hide anything from anybody.'' Asked how her position differed from that of Mecham, who said he made ``an honest mistake'' in failing to list the $350,000 loan and had not meant to hide anything, Mrs. Mofford replied, ``Mine are very small amounts of money.'' As recently as Monday, Mrs. Mofford described reports about the undisclosed transactions as ``nitpicking.'' On Friday, however, she said was turning over 150 pages of documents about transactions to Corbin's office together with copies of her income tax returns. Mrs. Mofford declined to make her tax returns available to reporters but distributed some papers on all the properties, loans and partnerships the AP had cited. She also disclosed an interest in one additional partnership. ``On the investigation of the allegations against Rose Mofford, I have no comment because the matter is under investigation,'' Corbin said. Mrs. Mofford said she had decided not to list the items because her interest in them was linked to T.R. Mofford, whom she divorced in 1967 but with whom she remained on good terms with until his death from cancer in 1982. She said that her former husband had given her an interest in a number of properties before his death and that she had paid his hospital bills ``in excess of $30,000.'' ``I have never made any profit,'' she said. ``I was paying my husband's bills.'' Mrs. Mofford and her aides acknowledged, however, that she had not listed her former husband's gifts under a reporting section that requires disclosure of gifts above $500 or, alternatively, listed the money she advanced to his estate for hospital bills in a section covering amounts of more than $1,000 owed to or by the officeholder. ``Its a bad judgment call. I admit it. I'm sorry. I hope that I haven't embarrassed the state,'' she said. Mecham did not immediately return messages left at his home and office. Nancy Puffer, founder of a group Mecham supporters known as Concerned Arizona Voters, said she saw little difference between Mrs. Mofford's problems and Mecham's, especially given Mrs. Mofford's 10 years as head of the office that administers disclosure laws. ``You would hope that she would know them backwards and forwards,'' Ms. Puffer said. ``If anyone is in a position to know them, it would be her.'' ``It leaves a little doubt in my mind if she can handle the office _ how well prepared she is,'' she added.
AP880802-0052 	X	Pat Robertson has completed his journey from religious broadcaster to presidential candidate and back, returning to the Christian Broadcasting Network as co-host of ``The 700 Club.'' ``For better or worse, the health of this ministry depends on this program. It is our bread and butter,'' Robertson said Monday after the first broadcast of the revamped program, which included the introduction of a new co-host, Sheila Walsh, a gospel singer and songwriter from Scotland. Robertson, who founded CBN, left the network in 1986 to pursue his political goals. In 1987, when the Southern Baptist minister formally announced his candidacy for the Republican presidential nomination, he installed his son, Tim Robertson, as president of CBN and one of three hosts of the program. During that period, donations dwindled. CBN officials blamed the decline on scandals in other television ministries, changes in ``The 700 Club'' format and a poor economy in oil states where many CBN donors live. Robertson later said his absence was the reason for the drop. During that time, CBN laid off more than 1,000 employees _ about half its workforce _ and cut its operating budget by more than 40 percent. Ratings for ``The 700 Club'' also dropped, giving rise to the format unveiled Monday. Gone were the dramatic recreations of religious conversions and the public prayers for healing that marked the old program. Robertson said the new formula for the 90-minute program will be one-third news, one-third ministry and teaching and one-third lifestyle features. Robertson still plans to campaign for Vice President George Bush during the presidential election. ``When I leave that desk,'' he said, pointing to the studio desk from which he delivers the news and commentary segment of the program, ``I am no longer a newsman. When I'm there, I will try to report the news fairly.''
AP880822-0037 	X	Stock prices fell on the Tokyo Stock Exchange Monday, while the dollar edged up. The Nikkei Stock Average of 225 selected issues, a 80.06-point winner Friday, lost 130.24 points, or 0.46 percent, to close at 28,079.18. The dollar closed at 133.88 yen, up 0.48 yen from the last week's close after moving between 133.80 yen and 133.95 yen. Trading was moderate on the stock exchange's first section, with volume at 600 million shares. Exchange dealers said the yen-dollar rate was not likely to change much for the moment because if the U.S. currency touches the 134-yen level, investors are likely to sell the dollar.
AP901107-0157 	X	Japan will continue as the No. 1 foreign customer of American farmers at least through the turn of the century, maintaining its lead over the European Community, according to Agriculture Department trade analysts. In the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, Japan once again topped foreign buyers of U.S. agricultural products at an estimated $8.3 billion, compared with the EC's imports of $7 billion. Emiko Miyasaka of the department's Foreign Agricultural Service said she expects Japan to maintain its lead over the 12-nation EC ``at least in the 1990s.'' Miyasaka said Tuesday in a telephone interview that Japan's top ranking as a foreign buyer of agricultural products appears solid through the turn of the century despite the EC's plan to unify economically by the end of 1992. Beyond the 1990s, however, she said the situation is too uncertain for predictions at this time. Miyasaka was asked to elaborate on a report by her agency last week which said Japan ``is likely to be among the strongest export growth markets'' for U.S. farmers. ``This optimism is based on the expectation that Japan's economic growth, while slowing, is expected to be the strongest of all industrialized countries, fueling consumer demand,'' the report said. Further, there has been some liberalization of Japan's agricultural imports through the current Uruguay round of negotiations under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. ``Since 1964, when it emerged as Asia's first billion-dollar market for U.S. farm products, Japan has steadily expanded its agricultural imports,'' the report said. Japan moved in front of the EC as the top U.S. farm market in 1988. Bulk commodities such as corn, soybeans, wheat, cotton, tobacco and logs are the big-ticket items, but Miyasaka and other analysts believe there are greater market opportunities for high-value products like beef, vegetables, citrus fruit, fruit juices and processed wood products. In 1988, the U.S.-Japan Beef Agreement opened the door to growing sales of beef - from a value of $556 million in 1987 to $1 billion last year. U.S. exports of fresh, frozen and prepared vegetables rose to $253 million by 1989, the report said. Sales of french fries, for example, rose to $79 million from $37 million in 1983. A thorn in this trade development has been Japan's rice policy, which effectively bars imports, part of a national policy to protect domestic growers. The United States has called on Japan during the GATT negotiations to ease the restrictions. Miyasaka noted that the U.S. position on Japanese rice is part of an overall bid under GATT to reduce trade restrictions all over the world. In any case, she said, whatever Japan does about its rice policy will not keep that country from continuing as the leading foreign market for American farmers. --- WASHINGTON (AP) - A plan calling for modest cuts in farm payments has been approved by the European Community, but U.S. farm organizations are watching closely to see what happens when it goes before international negotiators. ``It's a step,'' said Dave Lane of the American Farm Bureau Federation's Washington, D.C., office. ``But it'll still probably go right down to the wire.'' The Uruguay round of negotiations under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade is scheduled to conclude Dec. 31 in Geneva. Late Tuesday, in Brussels, Belgium, the 12-nation EC endorsed a carefully worded proposal that sought to soothe fears of governments that their farmers would be hurt by reductions. At issue was a proposal to pare farm subsidies by 30 percent over 10 years, starting in 1986. Some reductions have already been made. The EC proposal, which had been due Oct. 15, will be submitted to the trade talks as the community's opening position in the final round of bargaining. Meanwhile, a coalition of 29 U.S. farm organizations and commodity groups on Tuesday released a letter to U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills and Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter declaring that no GATT agreement on agricultural trade would be preferable to one that ``papers over'' fundamental differences with the C. The American farm groups have bitterly attacked the EC's system of export subsidies and certain other practices that bear on world agricultural trade. ``As the deadline approaches without any encouraging sign from the EC that problems dealing with market access, export subsidies, and health and sanitary issues are truly negotiable, we are becoming increasingly concerned that a final agricultural package may be fabricated to once again paper over our differences,'' the groups said. The American Farm Bureau Federation and the National Grange were joined by 27 commodity and agricultural trade associations representing a wide variety of products, including meat, soybeans, nuts, avocados, raisins, peaches, cattle, corn, pork, turkeys, wheat, and fresh fruit and vegetables. --- WASHINGTON (AP) - Milk production has been rising this year and so has the output of some major dairy products, according to a monthly report by the Agriculture Department. In September, butter production was estimated at 84.8 million pounds, up 4 percent from a year earlier. Total cheese output, excluding cottage cheese, was reported Tuesday at 477 million pounds, up 6 percent. Non-fat dry milk for human food was reported at 50.6 million pounds in September, up 13 percent from a year earlier. But ice cream production, at 62.9 million gallons, was down 1 percent from September 1989, the report said.
AP901029-0074 	X	The Supreme Court today let stand a ruling that the at-large system used in Norfolk, Va., city council elections violates the rights of black voters. A federal appeals court panel last Aug. 18 ordered the city to switch to a single-district election system that will ``remedy the vote dilution arising out of the at-large election system.'' The Norfolk City Council has seven members, elected to staggered four-year terms. Elections for three or four of the council seats are held every two years. Candidates with the most votes citywide win, and do not need a majority of the votes cast. A group of black voters and the local chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People sued in 1983, contending that the at-large system used since 1918 illegally blunted the political clout of black voters. Norfolk, one of Virginia's largest cities, is 35 percent black in population. Blacks also comprise 35 percent of the city's registered voters. The city council did not have a black member until 1968, and since then has had one black member most years. The NAACP and black voters who sued said if city council members were elected from seven single-member districts, black voters would be in the majority in three of the seven districts. The city's voting dispute reached the nation's highest court once before, and in 1986 was sent back to lower courts for more study. U.S. District Judge J. Calvitt Clarke Jr. in Norfolk ruled in 1988 that the at-large election system did not violate the federal Voting Rights Act, but a three-judge panel of the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals reversed his ruling. The panel, by a 2-1 vote, said the at-large system gives black voters ``less opportunity than other members of the electorate to participate in the electoral process and to elect representatives of their choice.'' The panel said those who sued ``do not seek proportional representation, and the act does not require it.'' But it said the lack of success blacks have had in winning more ``token representation'' on the city council show the existence of ``white bloc voting ... in Norfolk.'' The appeals court panel ordered Clarke to block all future at-large elections and to require the city to come up with a new election system in a ``reasonable, specified time'' to be reviewed under Voting Rights Act standards. ``If the city fails to enact a legal plan, (Clarke) should prepare a single-district plan for the conduct of future elections,'' the appeals court panel said. The full 4th Circuit court split 5-5 in refusing to review the three-judge panel's decision. The panel's decision was held in abeyance pending today's action by the Supreme Court. The panel's ruling that the city elections system must change now will take effect. In their appeal, city officials said the August decision forcing a change ``is nothing more than a decision to require ... proportional representation.'' ``If that ruling is correct,'' the appeal said, ``then all at-large election systems are imperiled.'' Asked for its views, the Bush administration told the court to reject the city's appeal. ``Although the court of appeals' analysis is not without flaws, the court's errors ... either do not affect the outcome of the case orare too closely tied to its particular facts to be of general significance,'' Justice Department lawyers said. The case is Norfolk vs. Collins, 89-989.
AP901013-0109 	X	A Greenpeace ship seized by the Soviets after it approached an Arctic nuclear test site was released Saturday and headed for Norway, a member of the environmental group said. None of the 42 activists detained were charged following more than five days at a naval base near the port of Murmansk, about 900 miles north of Moscow, Canadian activist Steve Shallhorn said by radiotelephone from the ship. The ship was expected to reach the Norwegian port of Kirkenes by early Sunday. Last Monday, the Soviet Coast Guard fired warning shots from deck-mounted machine guns before boarding the MV Greenpeace. Four environmentalists in a rubber raft had earlier managed to reach one of the Novaya Zemlya islands in the Barents Sea and collect radioactive soil and other samples, Shallhorn said. The ship was towed to the naval base, where it was held for violating Soviet territorial waters. Shallhorn said the four activists spent 10 hours on the island before being captured. Novaya Zemlya was a primary nuclear test site from 1958 to 1963. Environmental groups claim it was last used in 1988. ``They tried to hide samples in their packs, their pockets, even their socks, but the (Soviets) went through everything with a Geiger counter and found everything,'' Shallhorn said. He said the 35 Western and seven Soviet activists had been generally treated well during the detention, and were guarded by at least 13 armed men under KGB command. The Greenpeace was ordered to leave Soviet territorial waters following an investigation by the KGB security police and the Soviet Prosecutor's Office, the Soviet news agency Tass reported. The vessel was on a two-week anti-nuclear protest voyage along the Arctic coastline. On Wednesday, Soviet Foreign Ministry spokesman Gennady Gerasimov said the Soviet Union agreed with the Greenpeace goal of ending nuclear weapons testing. But, he said, ``no matter what the mission or how noble the objectives may be, the laws of our country cannot be violated with impunity.'' According to Greenpeace officials in London, Novaya Zemlya was chosen for the protest because of fears it would again become a major test site after the closing down of the Soviet Union's main test range in the Kazakhstan republic in central Asia. The site is about 370 miles from Norway. Unconfirmed reports that nuclear tests would be resumed there prompted protests from Nordic governments.
AP900619-0196 	X	The speaker of the Arizona House stripped two committee chairmen of their posts and threatened to resign Tuesday as she struggled for control of her rebellious Republican caucus. Speaker Jane Hull stripped Reps. Don Aldridge and Jim Skelly of their chairmanships, of the Public Institutions and Rural Development and House Judiciary committees, respectively, for voting against her. Mrs. Hull has clashed with conservative Republicans over a proposal to freeze the state's property tax rate and to pass along an income tax windfall to taxpayers. The proposal was offered by fellow Republican Margaret Updike, who said she wanted to ensure the Legislature didn't use the $170 million windfall or a property tax hike to balance a deficit budget. Majority Whip Chris Herstam tried to kill the proposal on a procedural motion. Ten Republicans joined Democrats in voting against him. But after Mrs. Hull threatened to replace any chairman who voted against Herstam, all Republicans except Aldridge and Skelly fell into line, giving Herstam a 32-25 margin. Rep. Brenda Burns sent Mrs. Hull a note during the debate, saying the conservatives would back down if she promised to allow a vote on Ms. Updike's proposal later. But Mrs. Hull refused to promise and tore up the note on the floor. She challenged the conservatives to try to remove her as speaker, and said she might resign. Later, after a three-hour closed caucus, Mrs. Hull said she had come ``pretty darned close'' to resigning, but decided against it ``because we were able to sit and rationally discuss the budget.'' House and Senate leaders have been trying for two weeks to drum up votes for a bipartisan budget and tax package, but conservative Republicans and a few Democrats in each chamber have balked. There has been talk of passing the $3.5 billion budget, which includes a deficit of about $400 million, without a tax package to fund it. Without specific legislation to the contrary, the windfall _ which has been passed on to taxpayers in past years _ would revert to the state, and the property-tax rate would be increased from its current 47 cents-per-$100 assessed valuation to whatever level would cover the deficit. Skelly, a 20-year veteran of the Legislature, is not seeking re-election and said losing his committee chairmanship was not significant because the session is almost over and no more committee meetings were scheduled. Aldridge said he was unwilling to give in to save his chairmanship. House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Mark Killian, a leader of the conservative faction, said the conservatives still opposed the budget but recognized they could not block its passage. ``Some of us went and talked to the speaker and kind of put up the white flag,'' he said. ``There's another day and another war. Maybe we can do better next year.''
AP880409-0129 	X	A jury Saturday found John Zaccaro Jr. guilty of selling cocaine to an undercover officer two years ago, rejecting defense arguments that he was entrapped by a pretty state trooper. The jury deliberated for slightly more than two hours before finding the son of 1984 vice presidential candidate Geraldine Ferraro guilty of selling one-quarter gram of the drug in February 1986, while he was a student at Middlebury College. Zaccaro, 24, sat impassively as the verdict was read, his parents and other family members behind him. He faces up to five years in prison and a $10,000 fine. A sentencing date was not immediately set. Outside the courthouse, Ferraro read a statement acknowledging that her son had done wrong in the case. But she also criticized Addison County State's Attorney John Quinn for ``prolonging the agony for two years'' regarding her son's fate. Ferraro promised to appeal the guilty verdict. She said she and her husband, John Zaccaro Sr., had tried to set up a plea agreement shortly after their son was arrested, but Quinn would not allow a plea bargain that would not include a felony conviction. ``We, as his parents would not allow him to plead guilty'' to a felony, she said. Ferraro said there were several drug cases recently in Vermont in which plea bargains were easily arranged and light sentences were given to defendants convicted of selling larger quantities of drugs. In her statement, Ferraro blamed the case on four people: her son; Quinn; former Middlebury police detective Sgt. David Wemette, who initiated the investigation after rumors circulated that Zaccaro had earned the campus nickname of ``the Pharmacist''; and herself because of the pressure her 1984 candidacy put on her family. Ferraro refused to answer reporters' questions as she and her family walked to their car and drove off. Quinn said the verdict ``sends a message that drug pushers will not be tolerated in Vermont. In my mind, it's been difficult dealing with the publicity in the case. I don't care who his parents are.'' The state's attorney has an unlisted home telephone number and could not be reached for further comment on the question of plea bargaining. The verdict came at the end of a six-day trial, more than half of which was taken up by jury selection. Zaccaro's defense attorney, Charles Tetzlaff, presented no witnesses, but told jurors in closing arguments that they should find his client innocent by reason of entrapment. In his instructions to the Vermont District Court jurors, Judge Francis McCaffrey said they could find Zaccaro innocent by means of entrapment if they believed he was induced to commit a crime he normally would not commit. Entrapment could not be used as a defense if the jury had considered the lesser charge of possession, the judge said. Tetzlaff said police acted improperly by sending an attractive female undercover agent to Zaccaro's apartment to buy cocaine. He asked the jury to send a message to police that society should not condone such activities. Quinn told jurors that the issue was whether Zaccaro sold cocaine to state trooper Laura Manning. ``Yes, she was deceptive. She's not going to the defendant's house dressed in a uniform. That would be ludicrous,'' Quinn said. ``I can't deny Laura Manning is attractive. I can't deny she's female. But I can deny she was bait.'' He described the deal as just another sale for Zaccaro. ``When he takes a packet off the tray, he opens it up, being the good merchant that he is ... looks at it, wraps it up'' and gives it to Manning, Quinn said. Earlier Saturday, the final prosecution witness, state police chemist Frank Durkee, testified that a packet of powder Zaccaro sold to Manning tested as cocaine. Tetzlaff, who rested his case soon after Durkee's testimony, had said in his opening statement: ``The defense will not dispute the allegation that he sold a regulated drug. This is a case of improper and overzealous police conduct.'' The attorney also said that Manning, an officer on her first undercover assignment, had brought up the subject of drugs, not Zaccaro. Manning testified Friday that she went to Zaccaro's apartment with instructions to buy one-quarter gram of cocaine. When asked what she said to Zaccaro, Manning responded, ``I said, `A couple of people told me that you could sell me some coke.''' ``And what did he say?'' Quinn asked. ``Sure,'' Manning quoted Zaccaro as responding. The judge banned the use of Manning's tape-recorded drug buy as evidence in the trial. He also refused to allow prosecutors to use items taken from Zaccaro's car, including documents described as drug records, $1,630 and eight grams of cocaine. The barring of the evidence in the car resulted in the dropping of a second charge against Zaccaro, possession with intent to sell. The defense also had raised the argument that Zaccaro was unfairly singled out because of the publicity surrounding his mother, but the Vermont Supreme Court refused to overturn the charges on that basis.
AP900905-0084 	X	Belgium's national dish _ golden-brown fried potato sticks sprinkled with salt and covered under a blob of mayonnaise _ is getting healthier again. The consumer group Test-Achat said Wednesday new legal standards for frying fats, which came in the wake of a damning 1987 report on Belgium's unhealthy ``frites,'' have done the trick. ``The statistics indicate a considerable improvement over three years ago,'' Test-Achat said in its magazine.
AP900619-0031 	X	A man who shot and killed a policeman trying to arrest him for a double murder said he held ``no grudges'' before being put to death in the electric chair in Arkansas' first execution in 26 years. John Edward Swindler, 46, was pronounced dead at 9:05 p.m. Monday, three minutes after being given 2,300 volts of electricit in the big oak chair. Arkansas became the 14th state to carry out an execution and Swindler the 130th inmate put to death since the U.S. Supreme Court in 1976 let states resume use of capital punishment. Swindler was condemned for the 1976 murder of Fort Smith policeman Randy Basnett, who was shot at a gas station while trying to arrest Swindler for two murders in South Carolina. Swindler was later convicted of those slayings as well. The U.S. Supreme Court denied a stay of execution on Saturday. In final remarks dictated in his cell to Roman Catholic Monsignor John O'Donnell, Swindler said: ``I have no animosity toward anyone. No grudges.'' ``I hope this brings to light the injustice of capital punishment and the need to abolish it,'' he said. Swindler's body was to be turned over to O'Donnell for cremation. Swindler's family didn't want the body. ``He has professed that he believes in Satan, and I hope he gets to see him real soon,'' his brother, Robert E. Swindler of Lexington, S.C., said recently. The last person executed in Arkansas was Charles Franklin Fields, who was electrocuted in 1964 for rape. R. Gene Simmons, convicted of killing 16 people, including 14 family members, is scheduled to be die Monday by injection. Because Swindler was sentenced before Arkansas changed its method of execution from electrocution to injection, he was given a choice of either method. He left the choice up to authorities, who selected the method specified in his sentence. Shanon Howard, the daughter of Basnett's widow, Cindy, said after the execution, ``All I can say is justice has been done.'' ``This is Randy Basnett's day,'' said Randy Manus, who was selected as a witness to the execution. A handful of demonstrators for and against the death penalty gathered outside the prison as the execution approached, including several members of the Fort Smith Police Department, some in T-shirts decorated with a lightning bolt and the slogan ``Turn Out The Lights, The Party's Over _ John Swindler, 1990.'' Some of those opposed to the death penalty sang ``Amazing Grace.'' When told of Swindler's death, several police officers cheered, grinned, shook one another's hands. One broke into song. On Sunday, about 50 members of Amnesty International held a 26-minute vigil commemorating 26 years without an execution in the state. The human rights group implored Gov. Bill Clinton ``not to end the decency of the past 26 years by reinstituting this brutish form of violence.''
AP900309-0192 	X	A group of House staffers spent more than $28,000 going to Europe to plan a trip for lawmakers, but received a jolt just before their return flight _ the bosses decided to stay home. The decision to scrap the travel _ after the staffers had gone to London, Paris, Rome and elsewhere _ has triggered a dispute between the two lawmakers who planned it. Rep. Frank Annunzio, D-Ill., the chief organizer, canceled the trip. He said he didn't want to use a military plane during the U.S. invasion of Panama, which began while the advance team was in Europe. But Rep. Doug Barnard Jr., D-Ga., said he suspected his colleagues got ``cold feet'' because of harsh winter weather in Europe and bad publicity at home. According to House records, the six-member advance team spent more than $28,000 for lodging, meals, commercial air transportation and other expenses between Dec. 13-20. The staffers and members contended they learned useful information regardless of the cancellation. The lawmakers were to have traveled in January to gather information on Europe's move toward a unified financial system. Aides to Annunzio and Barnard also now disagree over whether the January itinerary was even set. The lawmakers' respective advance teams scouted different cities. Curtis Prins, staff director of the Annunzio-led House Banking subcommittee on financial institutions, said the military jet would have taken members to Strasbourg in France, London, Brussels and Rome. Those were the cities visited by Annunzio's staffer on the advance mission, subcommittee economist Gregory Hallisey. Five House Government Operations subcommittee staffers traveled for Barnard to Paris, Brussels and Madrid. One of those staffers, Peter Barash, said the stops had ``not been fixed'' by the members. Barash was staff director of the Government Operations subcommittee on commerce, consumer and monetary affairs, a job he left on March 1. Barnard is chairman of that panel and also serves on Annunzio's subcommittee. A sixth congressional staffer on the trip was assigned to Barnard's committee by Congress' investigative arm, the General Accounting Office. Barnard bristled over Annunzio's decision to cancel the trip, maintaining it is vital lawmakers planning to restructure the U.S. banking system learn firsthand about Europe's move toward unified financial services by 1992. Barash said he held useful meetings with foreign tax authorities, U.S. officials involved in tax enforcement, representatives of the European Community and U.S. Chamber of Commerce officials. ``We've been doing serious and hard work,'' he said. Annunzio said in an interview that he canceled the trip because ``I could not in good conscience justify using military personnel'' and equipment when the U.S. forces ``were fighting and dying'' in Panama. He said the military jet transport, a version of the commercial Boeing 707, ``might have been needed in Panama and I wanted to make sure it would be available for that purpose.'' Barnard, in a separate interview, said, ``I doubt if we're that limited'' in military equipment. He said several members who originally signed up had dropped out before the invasion, leaving so few lawmakers that use of a military plane couldn't be justified anyway. Barnard added he knew of previous trips where ``at least a minority of people got cold feet'' because of potential adverse publicity. ``It sounds alluring to go to London, Paris and Madrid, but when it gets down to going in wintertime, it's not as appealing and they change their minds,'' he said. Barnard said he would like to reschedule the trip for Congress' Easter break. Annunzio noted members will be busy with primary and general elections this year, but he said he would revive the trip ``if I see interest.'' Prins, staff director of Annunzio's subcommittee, said 19 House members were signed up at one point for the January trip, and the party would have reached 41 including military escorts, spouses and staff members. The number of House members had dwindled to 12 just before the cancellation, Prins said, but he and Annunzio insisted the trip would have gone ahead with that number if the invasion had not intervened. Prins acknowledged ``if we had many more defections,'' the trip would have been canceled even without the invasion.
AP901128-0040 	X	President Mikhail S. Gorbachev has postponed a trip to Oslo next month to receive the Nobel Peace Prize because of domestic political and economic problems, Tass reported today. The official Soviet news agency said Gorbachev hoped the Nobel Committee would agree to postpone the Dec. 9-10 ceremonies and present him the prize at a later unspecified date. Gorbachev postponed the trip ``due to the crucial situation in the country and the president's preoccupation with affairs that require his constant attention,'' his press office said. In Oslo, Nobel Committee secretary Geir Lundestad would not comment on the Soviet request. Gobbachev is struggling to hold his geographically and ethnically diverse country together in the face of mounting nationalism and independence drives by the 15 republics. The Soviet Union also faces a grave economic crisis.
AP900307-0183 	X	Four-time winner Rick Swenson regained the lead Wednesday in the Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race, while a musher miles behind him was trying to scare off curious buffaloes. Lavon Barve and three-time champion Susan Butcher were minutes behind Swenson about a third of the way through the 1,158-mile race from Anchorage to Nome. ``There's a lot of strong teams this year,'' said Butcher, warning that there's still plenty of time for surprises. ``We've got a long way to go yet.'' Swenson led the race Monday topping the Alaska Range at 3,500-foot Rainy Pass, but was overtaken by defending champion Joe Runyan at Rohn on Tuesday. He had a cut on his face and a cracked plastic runner on his sled as he mushed away from this Athabascan Indian village of 110 people at Iditarod milepost 367. Swenson said the damage wouldn't stop him from reaching McGrath, the next checkpoint 48 miles from here, where he either would repair the runner or change sleds. Behind Swenson on the trail through Farewell Burn, eighth-place racer Tim Osmar of Clam Gulch fired shots into the air to clear the trail of several buffaloes. The Iditarod Trail is named for a tiny ghost town it passes through. The race commemorates the 1925 emergency delivery by relay dog teams of life-saving diphtheria serum to Nome. Butcher won the race in 1986, 1987 and 1988 and took second place last year. Swenson won in 1977, 1979, 1981 and 1982. He has finished in the top 10 every year since 1973, when the Iditarod was started.
AP880516-0118 	X	The White House described the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan today as a ``welcome first step,'' and expressed the hope the entire force will be gone by the end of the year. ``We look forward to seeing the withdrawal proceed on schedule and will continue to monitor the progress,'' said White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater. After a bloody eight-year occupation of their neighbor, the Soviets began withdrawing troops on Sunday. The spokesman said that the U.S. policy of support for the freedom fighters that have battled the Soviets ``remains steadfast.'' The United States has said that it will continue to supply weapons and other materials to the resistance fighters as long as the Soviets continue their support of the Kabul regime. Under the Geneva accord on Afghanistan, half of the estimated 115,000 troops are scheduled to leave by August and the rest by February. Fitzwater said the withdrawal was ``a welcome first step in the Afghan peoples' desire for independence and self determination.'' ``As the Soviets leave, we remain confident that a broadbased government chosen by the Afghan people and not imposed from outside will replace the Kabul regime,'' the spokesman added. Asked if the administration believes Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev will pull out all his troops, Fitzwater responded in the affirmative. ``We obviously hope the withdrawl can be complete by the end of the year,'' Fitzwatar said. Asked if that included Soviet advisers as well as troops, he responded, ``A Soviet's a Soviet.''
AP880713-0267 	X	A new management team is in place today at Coleco Industries Inc., and the company that brought Cabbage Patch Kids to the marketplace is seeking protection from its creditors in bankruptcy court. The West Hartford-based company on Tuesday gave up a months-long battle to reach an agreement to reorganize its debts with its banks and bondholders, announcing it had filed for federal bankruptcy court protection from creditors. Coleco said it filed for Chapter 11 protection late Monday with U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. The filing will permit the company to continue operating while it reorganizes its finances. The Coleco board appointed J. Brian Clarke, currently president and chief operating officer, as president and chief executive officer. Clarke replaces Morton E. Handel, who is recovering from open-heart surgery. Handel submitted his resignation as chief executive officer because of the company's need for a full-time CEO during this period. He will continue as chairman of the board. The Chapter 11 filing had been expected ever since Coleco announced in March it suffered a $105.4 million loss for all of 1987 and would miss an April interest payment on its debentures. Coleco said the filing did not include the company's Canadian and other foreign subsidiaries. Telephone calls seeking comment from company officials on Tuesday were not returned. Coleco owes more than $100 million to a group of foreign and domestic lenders. In March, shortly after it announced a $47.4 million loss for the first quarter, the toymaker proposed a $335 million debt restructuring plan. But late last month, Coleco was forced to abandon the plan because it failed to win approval of the company's debtholders. The company said Tuesday it was no longer able to obtain working capital financing because of the failed plan and because some creditors had started to attach its assets. Over the past year, the toymaker slashed its work force in an effort to cut costs. It currently has fewer than 600 employees in the United States, down from an average of 2,500 last year. It also has sold several of its product lines to raise cash. ``What is going to emerge is going will be very different from what went in,'' said analyst David Leibowitz, senior vice president of American Securities Corp. Five years ago, Coleco was on top of the toy world with its Cabbage Patch Kids. The company sold $1 billion worth of the dolls over two years. The Cabbage Patch craze prompted Coleco to expand its product lines and make acquisitions. Coleco bought the company that makes Scrabble board games, acquired the license to the popular Trivial Pursuit board game and bought the company that makes Wrinkles stuffed animals. But the Cabbage Patch fad abated and analysts said the company did not pare its costs soon enough. When the toy industry slumped in 1987, Coleco was hit particularly hard. The company suffered losses in four of the past five years, including $215 million over the last two years. It recently lost the license to market Trivial Pursuit because of its precarious financial state. But Coleco said Tuesday it managed to retain the license for the valuable Cabbage Patch line. Coleco said it had extended its license with Original Appalachian Artworks Inc. until Dec. 31, 1994.
AP900510-0129 	X	Medical personnel who use Pulmanex Manual resuscitators are being asked to return the devices because of a defect that in some cases could be fatal to patients. The Food and Drug Administration said Life Design Systems Inc. of Carrollton, Texas, is voluntarily recalling resuscitators with model numbers beginning with 90, 91, 95 or 96 and ending with a 0, 1, 2 or 3 after the hyphen. The recalled models have lot numbers 9321 through 9361 and were made from Nov. 17 through Dec. 27 last year. In five previous recalls, Life Designs Systems has recalled other models of the resuscitator for various reasons, the FDA said. The agency said it did not know of any deaths that have resulted from any of the faulty resuscitators. The resuscitator subject to the latest recall comes in adult, pediatric and neonatal sizes. It consists of a mask that is placed over the patient's mouth and nose and is attached to a plastic bag. Squeezing the plastic bag forces air into the patient's lungs. In faulty resuscitators, the rear valves can become dislodged and prevent air from reaching the person being resuscitated, the FDA said. If the problem is not recognized in time, the patient could die.
AP880818-0101 	X	A small earthquake rattled central Utah early today, but there were no reports of damage or injury. The quake struck at 6:44 a.m. and registered 4.6 on the Richter scale of ground motion, according to the U.S. Geological Survey's National Earthquake Information Service at Golden, Colo. It was an aftershock of an earlier temblor. Initial reports of the quake came from Price, East Carbon and Helper. The quake's epicenter was 34 miles south of Price. The Carbon County sheriff's office said it received numerous calls, and the Emery County sheriff's office also received a few calls from residents asking about the earthquake. The central Utah area was hit by three quakes on Sunday, the largest of which was 5.6 on the Richter scale. The temblors caused minor damage and were followed by about a dozen aftershocks on Monday. Seismologists had said aftershocks could continue through mid-week. The Richter scale is a measure of ground motion as recorded on seismographs. Every increase of one number means a tenfold increase in magnitude. Thus a reading of 4.5 reflects an earthquake 10 times stronger than one of 3.5. An earthquake of 3.5 on the Richter scale can cause slight damage in a populated area and a 4 can cause moderate damage in the local area.
AP880722-0120 	X	Jesse Jackson issued an emotional appeal today for supporters to back the Democratic ticket and told Michael Dukakis and Lloyd Bentsen that he will be keeping up the ``street heat'' to make sure they don't forget his constituents. ``It is in order and it is right to support this ticket because of our access to it and our relaionship with it,'' Jackson told several hundred delegates as Dukakis and Bentsen looked on. ``We have every reason to be hopeful, to be excited, to know that we are close to where we are going, a long way from where we started,'' Jackson said. ``And in our lifetime you and I will be in the White House.'' He introduced Dukakis as ``a man I've come to know, to respect ... a man I've come to ... love because of his own sensitivity to family,'' Jackson added: ``I bring to you a man I plan to watch up close ... when he becomes ... the next president of the United States _ Michael Dukakis.'' The group erupted in applause and shouts of ``Duke, Duke.'' ``We're going to need you, we want you, we can't win without you,'' Dukakis responded. Jackson issued a blistering attack on the Reagan record and called for Democratic unity. A progressive agenda will be won with ``a combination of street heat and leadership,'' he said. He promised Dukakis, ``There will be enough heat to cook our meat and enough heat for George Bush to get out of the kitchen.'' Jackson recalled that when Lyndon B. Johnson was added to the ticket in 1960, some civil rights activists were concered. But Johnson rose to the occasion, Jackson said. Turning to Bentsen, he said, ``In a real sense, your occasion is now... You ask us to trust you. All we can ask of anyone is that they not betray that trust.'' Jackson repeated that he wants neither a job nor a title with the Dukakis operation. ``I want to serve, free to serve at my own pace, free to serve, free to challenge,'' he said. He said he expects his own relationship with the ticket will influence some policies. ``What does it mean to me in practical terms?'' Jackson asked. ``The contras have lost a vote.'' Bentsen _ who has voted for aid to the Nicaraguan rebels _ and Dukakis politely joined the applause as delegates chanted, ``No contra aid.'' Jackson, who had been the last survivor in the Democratic field against Dukakis, had endorsed the ticket at Thursday night's closing session of the party's convention. At the end of the long road, Jackson said, ``I feel fantastic.'' But it was clear he would have to do some selling to whip up enthusiasn for the Dukakis-Bentsen ticket. Jesse Jackson embraced the Democratic ticket he had wanted to head and gave the Democrats the unity send-off they sought for victory in the November election. As he strode from the podium where he joined Democratic nominee Michael Dukakis on Thursday night, Jackson said, ``We have a good ticket and a good team. And if the unity that is expressed here tonight is sustained and expands, we will win and we will deserve to win.'' Asked his own feeling at the close of the convention, he said, ``I feel fantastic.'' With the dust hardly settled from his own presidential campaign, Jackson today was looking ahead to new political ventures. He called a meeting today of his 1,200 delegates to include them in his plans to campaign for the Dukakis ticket, raise money for his own political action committee and register voters. It appeared Thursday night that he would have to do some selling to whip up enthusiasm among some delegates for the team of Dukakis and Sen. Lloyd Bentsen of Texas. Signs reading ``No Contra aid'' printed up by members of the Vermont delegation were held up by several Jackson delegates around the hall. Dukakis opposes aid to the Nicaraguan Contra rebels, while Bentsen has voted for it in the past. ``He's against peace,'' said Vermont delegate Cindy Milstein who mentioned several pro-military stands by Bentsen. But Jackson officials circulated a statement from him to his delegates before the vice presidential vote, urging support of Bentsen. The brief statement said that while he disagrees with Dukakis and Bentsen on some issues, ``our interest converges in building a coalition to beat the Republicans this fall.'' Jackson's appearance in the hall later was clearly appreciated. At the mention of his name by Dukakis, a deafening cheer went up from both Jackson and Dukakis delegates. At first Jackson sat unnoticed in a VIP box with former President Jimmy Carter, an uncustomary role for Jackson, until Dukakis waved to him. Jackson stood, gave a thumbs up and the delegates erupted in emotion.
AP880912-0251 	X	The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials edged up 3.56 points to 2,072.37. But declining issues outnumbered advances by nearly 4 to 3 on the New York Stock Exchange, with 605 up, 789 down and 525 unchanged. Big Board volume totaled 114.88 million shares, against 141.54 million in the previous session. The NYSE's composite index dropped .21 to 150.63.
AP881208-0255 	X	The following are the most popular videocassettes as they appear in next week's issue of Billboard magazine. Copyright 1988, Billboard Publications, Inc. Reprinted with permission.
AP881110-0182 	X	Vandals painted swastikas and anti-Semitic slurs at a Jewish cemetery in Rhode Island and in the office of a Jewish student organization in New York one day after a ceremony marking the 50th anniversary of Kristallnacht. ``I can't even find the word for it, it's so hurtful,'' James Oppenheim, president of the Jewish Student Union at the State University of New York at Binghamton, N.Y., said Thursday. There was no sign of forced entry at the office and sanctuary in the basement of the student union, Oppenheim said. The group has about 200 students that coordinate activities on the campus, which has about 5,000 Jewish students. ``I think it's politically motivated because they didn't do any damage that we can see,'' Oppenheim said. Police were taking fingerprints in the rooms but had no suspects, said Raymond Dye, vice president of student affairs. On Wednesday night the Jewish group sponsored a candlelight vigil to commemorate the 50th anniversary of Kristallnacht, the night the Nazis began their first organized assaults against the Jews in Germany and Austria. In Woonsocket, R.I., vandals painted swastikas and anti-Semitic slogans at a 95-year-old Jewish cemetery, but police were uncertain whether the attack was related to Kristallnacht observances. A woman visiting B'nai Israel Cemetery Tuesday found her son's headstone among the approximately half-dozen covered with swastikas and other Nazi symbols. The main road to the cemetery also had been inscribed with anti-Jewish slogans and the German word for Jew, ``Juden.'' ``Today when I went to the cemetery, it was a very terrible reminder of things that have happened to us in the past,'' Temple B'nai Israel President Edith Wittes told those assembled for a Kristallnacht memorial service. In addition to the Nazi symbols, there were other images with possible links to Satanic worship, such as skulls and an inverted cross with its arms turned down. ``The sickness that made Adolf Hitler possible is alive and well today, in our own community,'' said Rabbi Joel Chernikoff.
AP880412-0167 	X	Cher completed her transformation from pop singer to top actress at the 60th Annual Academy Awards when she won the Oscar for her role as the superstitious young widow of ``Moonstruck.'' ``I want to really say something,'' she said when she accepted the award Monday night. ``When I was little my mother said, `I want you to be something.''' ``I don't think that this means that I am somebody, but I guess I'm on my way,'' Cher said. She was nominated by the Academy once before for ``Silkwood.'' Cher, known for her outrageous garb at past Oscars, was slightly subdued this time in a black sequined gown with see-through netting and strategically placed spangles. Backstage, she said of her getup: ``I think Theda Bara would probably be proud of me,'' referring to the famed ``vamp'' of the silent screen.
AP881028-0284 	X	After more than a week of overdosing on mega-deals, the fear of failure has given Wall Street traders and speculators a reason to just say no to merger mania. Dragged down by sharp declines in key takeover issues, the Dow Jones average of 30 industrials fell 24.35 points on Thursday, closing at 2,140.83. The new wave of multibillion-dollar buyouts relies heavily on debt, and many observers are concerned that the financing of these deals ultimately may prove too fragile. ``This is not business as usual,'' said Robert Brusca, chief economist at Nikko Securities Co. International Inc. of the high level of debt mandated in these transactions. ``When you take a blue-chip company and turn it into a buffalo-chip company, it's not a good situation.'' Reflecting skepticism over Kohlberg Kravis Robert & Co.'s ability to fund its $20.3 billion tender offer for RJR Nabisco Inc., Nabisco's stock fell $2.75 share to $82. Other takeover issues also lost substantial ground, including Kraft Inc., which fell $3 to $94.50; West Point-Pepperell Inc. plunged $3.37{ to $44.50, and Pillsbury Co. slipped $2.12{ to $58.87{. Also down were so-called ``whisper'' stocks, which had risen on spillover speculation. ``There's too much debt supporting the nation's corporations, that's what this is telling us,'' said Philip Puccio, a senior vice president at Dillon Read & Co. Amplifying worries over the size of the recent deals were two developments. In the corporate bond market, where the billions needed to finance the deals are raised, a $1.15 billion junk bond sale for Campeau Corp.'s takeover of Federated Department Stores hit a major snag. Meanwhile, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan has urged banks to be cautious about lending money for multibillion-dollar takeovers and buyouts. Greenspan's warning came in a letter to the Senate Banking Committee on Wednesday. ``Institutions have participated in so much of this debt financing that (the financial community) is starting to worry,'' said Puccio. ``They're afraid that if this thing does keep building the way it is and corporate America becomes a house of cards, it can collapse the way the stock market did.'' Transactions that are dependent upon a high level of debt are losing much of their allure. For example, Wall Street Journal report that U.S. Shoe Corp. is considering a leveraged buyout was said to be a factor in sending the company's stock tumbling $1.37{ to $24.25. Before the recent rash of deals, analysts agree, such a report would have driven the company's stock higher. In the junk bond market, underwriter First Boston Corp. said that while it had not officially withdrawn its offering for the Federated deal, it was engaged in discussions to restructure the transaction. Proceeds from the sale of these high-risk bonds were destined to pay off bridge loans used to cover the short-term costs of the Campeau takeover announced last spring. A delay could spell trouble for the banks and investment houses that provided that financing. ``If this causes some players to sit on the sidelines because they committed too much capital, then maybe they'll think twice next time,'' Brusca said. Because the recent deals all involve huge amounts of borrowed money, they could be devastated by higher interest rates or the inability of a company to sell off assets to cover the debt. Some observers also fear there aren't enough investors interested in purchasing billions of new junk bonds. But Michael Dahood, an analyst at Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co., contends there is a hefty appetite for larger deals. ``I don't think deals that have a sound economic basis should have any difficulty getting funded,'' he said. The problem, however, is broader than one firm and one transaction. ``I'm concerned about the fact that at any point in time there are a lot of firms that are highly leveraged,'' said Gregg Jarrell, former Securities and Exchange Commission economist and now a professor at the University of Rochester. ``No one can really know the full extent of what could happen if the economy turned down,'' he said.
AP880227-0037 	X	A 36-year-old East German man fled uninjured over the heavily fortified border to West Germany by climbing fences under cover of darkness, border police said. The man crossed the frontier late Thursday near the West German community of Philippsthal, 90 miles northeast of Frankfurt, said border police in Kassel. The escapee was not identified. At least 17 people have fled over East Germany's border with West Germany and the Communist-constructed Berlin Wall since Jan. 1, according to West German officials.
AP881110-0275 	X	The most urgent problem facing the president regarding manufacturing is the twin deficits. Beyond that, our concerns will unfold as the new Congress attempts to put through a number of mandated benefits which are linked to the deficit ... like mandatory health insurance, the parental leave issue, the dual-shop question and increased minimum wage. That's pretty tough medicine to apply to a lot of companies trying to compete in the world marketplace. The president has got to be alert to these heavy burdens on the competitive capabilities of companies and try to head off as many as possible in terms of the entire payment burden being placed on an industry.
AP901107-0150 	X	Republican Bob Smith says he's just a ``common man'' who will push conservative issues as a U.S. senator, such as maintaining the defense budget and supporting the ``Star Wars'' program. Smith made fiscal conservatism the overriding theme of his campaign to replace retiring Republican Sen. Gordon Humphrey. He voted against the recent federal budget compromise because it contained tax increases, which he said could be avoided. Despite that, President Bush campaigned in New Hampshire for Smith, who stayed in Washington because of House votes. Smith says one of his greatest accomplishments in three terms in the House was his leadership last year in defeating the 50 percent congressional pay raise, a claim derided by his Democratic opponent, former U.S. Sen. John Durkin. ``I'm a common man, representing common people with common goals and values and a whole lot of common sense, and I'm real proud of that,'' says Smith, 49. Born in Trenton, N.J., Smith lives in Tuftonboro. A veteran who served on a Navy supply ship during the Vietnam War, Smith was a high school history teacher and real estate agent before being elected to Congress in 1984. He consistently supports defense spending, including for the Strategic Defense Initiative, or ``Star Wars,'' program, and says any defense spending cuts due to improved relationships with unfriendly countries should be gradual. Smith opposes abortion except to save the life of the mother, but says he would support an exception for rape and incest if it meant enactment of federal anti-abortion legislation. He easily won the GOP Senate nomination in September over a pro-choice opponent. He opposes the Equal Rights Amendment and favors the death penalty for violent criminals. Smith served on the House Armed Services and Veterans Affairs committees. He and his wife, Mary Jo, have three children.
AP880722-0314 	X	The state's largest savings and loan holding company, First Texas Financial Corp., is seeking federal help for its troubled thrifts, company officials said Thursday. A proposal submitted to federal regulators by First Texas includes financial backing from New York investor Saul Steinberg's Reliance Insurance Co., and private funding by First Texas Chairman and Chief Executive J. Livingston Kosberg and Dallas real estate developer Richard C. Strauss. First Texas Financial is the parent company of Dallas-based First Texas Savings Association and Houston-based Gibraltar Savings Association. The plan would provide more than $250 million in private funds in return for an undetermined amount from the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp., a First Texas spokeswoman who wished to remain anonymous said Thursday. ``I can confirm there has been an offer and that we are optimistic about it, but at this time, we don't know how much federal money is involved,'' she said. With 44 branches in the state, First Texas has assets of $3.4 billion. Gibraltar, with 53 locations and assets of $6.1 billion, is the state's largest thrift. Together, the two thrifts lost $169.9 million in the first quarter. The Federal Home Loan Bank is in the midst of implementing the Southwest Plan, a program to merge, close or consolidate more than 100 insolvent thrifts in Texas. Regulators have announced three consolidations of 11 thrifts in Texas since February involving $2.2 billion in FSLIC aid. The president of the FHLB in Dallas, George Barclay, said he hopes to close or merge 20 more thrifts by Sept. 30.
AP880716-0139 	X	It's no secret that bondholders usually get the short end of the stick when it comes to things like corporate takeovers or restructurings. Unlike stock prices that often skyrocket even at the hint of a merger, corporate paper usually suffers as bondholders worry about a company being saddled with additional debt once a deal is completed. And unlike stockholders who have final say over such a deal, bondholders are relegated to a passive, non-voting role. A group of investors, though, is working to change that through the recently formed Institutional Bondholders' Rights Association. The fledgling group, believed to be the first of its kind, has two goals: to help institutional investors respond promptly to specific situations threatening the value of debt investments; and to develop basic means for protecting the interests of institutional investors, association president Richard S. Swingle explained in a recent interview. ``Widespread corporate restructuring _ including mergers and acquisitions, management buyouts and bankruptcy reorganizations _ has underscored the need for an organization that will help safeguard the interests of institutional bondholders,'' Swingle said. ``Recently, it has become typical for a corporation to finance a restructuring by drastically increasing its debt load. Often the result is a reduction in the credit quality of existing corporate debt held by institutions,'' he said. Eight companies have joined the association since its inception earlier this month, among them: Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., Prudential Life Insurance Co. of America and Loomis, Sayles & Co., all holders of billions of dollars in corporate debt. The association, looking for more strength in numbers, hopes to have at least 25 members in a year and up to 100 in the next three to four years. Swingle, who is also a vice president at T. Rowe Price Associates Inc., said that as specific situations arise the association will assist institutional investors in taking the appropriate action. For example, he said, the group may develop a set of provisions to insert in corporate debt agreements that would guarantee institutional investor rights. Such provisions would assure that no corporate transaction could benefit shareholders at the expense of bondholders. In addition, Swingle said, the association might form ad hoc bondholder groups to negotiate terms or defeat an asset sale, or work with a corporation's management to preserve existing debt value in a reorganization. ``By helping institutions respond cooperatively to specific restructuring situations _ and by building explicit protection for institutions into corporate debt agreements _ we hope to guarantee that rights of institutional investors are afforded greater consideration when a corporation alters its financial structure,'' Swingle said.
AP880810-0255 	X	An engine caught fire on a United Airlines jet during takeoff Wednesday, forcing the evacuation of 102 passengers and five crew members, authorities said. Seven people were injured. The twin-engine Boeing 737 bound for Chicago was taxiing down a runway at Little Rock Regional Airport about 9:30 a.m. when the fire was spotted and the takeoff was aborted, United spokesman Charles Novak said. Airport firefighters doused the burning engine, he said. Many of the passengers, who exited through emergency door and window exits, jumped from the wing of the plane to the ground and were injured. Seven people were treated at hospitals, authorities said. Most of the passengers caught the next flight out to Chicago. Novak said airline officials had not determined what caused the fire. Investigators from the National Transportation Safety Board were at the airport late Wednesday to investigate the accident.
AP880811-0120 	X	This tiny republic is issuing four postage stamps dedicated to the fight against AIDS, the government said Thursday. The stamps, due to come out in the next few days, were prepared in conjunction with an international congress on AIDS in San Marino in October. ``The set carries a warning but at the same time hope,'' a government statement said. The stamps cost about 18 cents to 71 cents each. San Marino, an enclave in Italy's Apennine mountains, claims to be the world's oldest republic, founded in 301. Tourism and its postage stamps and coins are its chief sources of income.
AP880909-0210 	X	With youngsters back in school, satiated by the usual overflow of mindless summer entertainment, the fall movie season traditionally turns to more adult fare, particularly high caliber dramas destined for Academy Award consideration. This season, social comment, which has not been in strong supply in recent years, makes a return to the screen with such subjects as armed hate groups, infanticide, political protest fugitives, as well as another look at the Vietnam War. Already playing in the nation's theaters is ``Betrayed,'' a drama starring Debra Winger and Tom Berenger about the right-wing underground in the Midwest. At the other end of the political spectrum is Sidney Lumet's ``Running on Empty,'' with Christine Lahti, Judd Hirsch and River Phoenix. The movie concerns a family of 1960s radicals who have been living underground and on the run for 15 years. ``Bat 21,'' with Gene Hackman and Danny Glover takes another hard look at the Vietnam War. ``The American movies of the 1930s and 1940s made a big impact on me because of their social content,'' says Costa-Gavras, the Greek-French director of ``Betrayed'' and other political films, including ``Z'' and ``Missing.'' ``When I first saw `The Grapes of Wrath,' it made an indelible impression on me. I deplore the fact that Hollywood retreated into a dream world in the last few decades. But I see hope for the future. There are too many young and talented filmmakers who want to comment on the world's ills.'' Social commentary won't be the only significance of the autumnal movie season. Following a record summer at the nation's box offices, Hollywood anticipates a rousing fourth-quarter finish to what may be its biggest box-office year. ``No Drought at the Box Office'' bannered the trade paper Variety in predicting a record $1.65-billion theater gross for the summer. With ```Crocodile' Dundee II,'' ``Coming to America'' and ``Who Framed Roger Rabbit?'' breaking the $100 million barrier and ``Big'' well on its way, chances are good that 1988 will top last year's $4.25 billion. The 22-week Hollywood writers strike apparently will not affect the supply of films to the world's theaters. ``There is an abundant supply of product,'' said Herb Steinberg, spokesman for the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers. ``The Christmas pictures are in the can, and films now in production will carry into next year. And there are plenty of scripts ready to be filmed.'' Cheryl Rhoden of the Writers Guild of America acknowledged that the strike ``slowed some projects down.'' But she said the effects of the walkout on theatrical production are harder to measure than television, where the fall season was decimated. Fall movie-goers may notice a few more rough edges than usual because the numerous script revisions normally made in the course of theatrical filming were not permitted during the lengthy walkout. Here's what else is on tap for the fall season: Having little success in comedies, Whoopi Goldberg returns to drama with ``Clara's Heart,'' directed by Robert Mulligan (``To Kill a Mockingbird''). Meryl Streep is accused of murdering her baby at an Australian court trial in ``Guilty by Suspicion.'' Diane Keaton returns to drama in ``The Good Mother,'' directed by Leonard Nimoy (``Three Men and a Baby''). ``Criminal Law'' stars Kevin Bacon in a story about a serial killer. Jeremy Irons plays twins in ``Dead Ringers'' with Genevieve Bujold. Burt Lancaster plays a grandfather whose family visits him in ``Rocket Gibraltar.'' Clint Eastwood directed his homage to Charlie Parker in ``Bird,'' with Forest Whitaker (``Good Morning, Vietnam'') as the legendary sax man. ``Imagine: John Lennon'' traces the late Beatle's stormy life in rare footage from his estate. Hard to believe, but the musical will make a comeback _ sort of. Gregory Hines will appear as a dancer seeking help from oldtimer Sammy Davis Jr. in ``Tap.'' ``Heartbreak Hotel'' is listed as a musical drama starring David Keith and Tuesday Weld. Animation fans will be able to see two new features this fall: Disney's ``Oliver and Company,'' a reworking of ``Oliver Twist'' with the voices of Bette Midler, Billy Joel and Huey Lewis; ``The Land Before Time,'' a prehistoric family adventure from Steven Spielberg and Don Bluth, who combined on ``An American Tale.'' Since comedy is still king, there will be plenty of laugh-seekers in the fall market. Peter O'Toole, Steve Gutenburg and Darryl Hannah appear in a comedy-fantasy about a haunted English mansion. ``Heart Break Dance,'' a comedy-drama about family life in a New England town, marks Don Johnson's emergence in feature films. He stars with Susan Sarandon and Jeff Daniels. ``The Accidental Tourist'' reunites the crew of ``Body Heat'' _ William Hurt, Kathleen Turner and writer-director Lawrence Kasdan _ in a comedy about a travel writer and a dog trainer. Rebecca deMornay plays an FBI trainee who goofs up in ``Feds.'' Sally Field and Tom Hanks are would-be standup comics in ``Punchline.'' Michael Caine and Ben Kingsley play Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson for laughs in ``Without a Clue.'' In ``Moon Over Parador,'' Richard Dreyfuss appears as an actor who impersonates a Caribbean dictator. Want some adventure? ``Gorillas in the Mist'' features Sigourney Weaver as the ill-fated student of ape behavior, Dian Fossey. And Don Ameche and friends are back in ``Cocoon: The Return.'' In the action line, Mel Gibson, Michelle Pfeiffer and Kurt Russell appear in the drug-war ``To Kill a Sunrise.'' ``The Beast,'' with Jason Patrick, concerns a Soviet tank crew in Afganistan. In ``Last Rites,'' Tom Berenger portrays a Catholic priest who protects a girl marked for death by the Mafia. ``Alien Nation'' casts James Caan, Mandy Patinkin and Terence Stamp in a sci-fi cop thriller. All these films come from the eight major releasing companies. Many others will be emanating from the ever-growing independent companies.
AP880928-0189 	X	Pride, not profit, inspires Conrad Industries Inc. to embroider the patches that adorn the space suits of the astronauts, the company's president says. Conrad has embroidered the patch for Discovery, designed in tribute to the seven Challenger astronauts, as it has for every manned mission since Apollo 12, the second moon landing. The Discovery patch shows a stylized shuttle rising into the the sky on a plume of fire and smoke and streaking through a red, V-like vector. A multi-rayed sun creeps over the horizon and the Big Dipper hangs in the sky. NASA said the sunrise represents a new beginning; the launch, a safe mission; and the red vector, the symbol of aeronautics, the traditional strength of the space agency. The seven stars of the dipper symbolize Challenger astronauts. The patch has five colors, but such emblems can have up to 19, compared with three colors in a typical commercial or military design, said company president Bernhard Conrad. ``We sometimes spend a dollar and charge a dime. But we do it for the prestige, the satisfaction and the chance to sell to collectors,'' he said, adding that the emblems represent only a small part of its $11 million annual volume.
AP880930-0097 	X	Federal health inspectors and Pentagon investigators have begun a joint probe of claims by Lockheed workers that they are endangered by chemicals believed to be used in making the top-secret Stealth fighter. A three-member team from the Occupational Safety and Health Administration made a visit Thursday to the aerospace company's Burbank plant, where 75 employees have filed suit complaining they suffer from ailments brought on by exposure to hazardous substances used in their top-secret jobs. A team of military physicians, toxic material experts and other specialists from the Department of Defense are expected to be at the plant by Monday, according to an announcement Thursday by Rep. Howard Berman, D-Calif., whose district includes the Los Angeles suburb where the plant is located. In addition to the lawsuit, about 150 employees have filed worker's compensation claims related to exposure to the chemicals. The employees, some of whom work in Lockheed's highly classified plant nicknamed the ``Skunk Works,'' where the U-2 reconnaissance planes were built, have said the top-secret nature of their jobs has hampered their efforts to seek treatment from private physicians. Attorney Timothy Larson, who represents the workers in the suit and compensation claims, said five of his clients and an unknown number of workers have died since 1986. Lockheed workers claim composite materials used in the Stealth fighter, designed not to reflect radar, and chemicals used to mill or clean them are causing rashes, nausea, dizziness, memory loss and lack of concentration, Berman said. Similar symptoms have been cited in the Seattle area by workers at Boeing plants, where many of the same materials are used on commercial aircraft. In Washington, the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee wants to determine whether workers in aerospace facilities with DOD contracts are being exposed to hazardous chemicals without adequate protection. No state or federal OSHA inspector has conducted a full-scale inspection of the top-secret Skunk Works since the safety agency was founded 16 years ago, high-ranking OSHA sources told the Los Angeles Times this week. An OSHA inspector with a nuclear-materials security clearance from the Department of Energy was admitted to the secure section of the plant Thursday and will remain there for several days, an OSHA official told the Los Angeles Times. ``He will look first into the specific complaints contained in the lawsuit and media reports and after that will decide whether to expand this into a wall-to-wall general inspection,'' said the spokesman, not identified by the Times.
AP900706-0073 	X	Officials from the two Germanys began negotiations today on the final phase of unification, and Prime Minister Lothar de Maiziere of East Germany said Berlin should be the new German capital. Meanwhile, in southern Leipzig, farmers said they would dump 2,640 gallons of milk on the streets Monday to protest the loss of business following the economic merger of the German states, the ADN news agency said. Elsewhere, a bomb threat forced the evacuation of East Germany's Parliament while lawmakers were in a session unrelated to the East-West talks. No bomb was found, and the lawmakers returned after about 30 minutes. De Maiziere led the East German delegation in talks today on combining the political systems of the German states. An economic treaty went into effect Sunday that united the German economies. Officials have spoken of all-German elections as early as December. In an interview with ADN, de Maiziere said the pact should give East Germans the same rights as West Germans. He also said the treaty should make Berlin the capital of a united Germany. West German Interior Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble led the West German delegation. Also today, 100,000 metal workers held one-hour ``warning strikes'' to demand higher wages and job protection, said union spokesman Detlef Kuchenbecker. About 10,000 marched through East Berlin to press their demands. Prices have soared in this new free-market society following the economic merger and metal workers have held strikes daily at various plants. East German stores have stocked their shelves with more expensive West German products, forcing up prices. There have also been widespread reports of price gouging by East German stores. De Maiziere and other officials have criticized the price rises. The costs of some foodstuffs varied by 100 percent from one region to another. ``There's no way that can be justified merely by higher transportation costs or overhead,'' de Maiziere told legislators Thursday. ADN reported price rises of 400 percent to 600 percent in northern Mecklenburg and Pomerania regions and said there were long shopping lines in southeastern Dresden. ``There are cities in the GDR (East Germany) where the average price levels are way above those in West Germany,'' said Economics Minister Gerhard Pohl. ``We need certain guarantees that GDR citizens ... won't be exploited.'' Several thousand metalworkers struck at seven plants near Leipzig, where pay talks deadlocked two days ago, according to ADN. The union wants East Germany to adopt the West German system of stipulating salary scales and job descriptions in huge collective contracts by which all the workers in a specific industry are bound. In southwestern Erfurt, 9,000 workers rallied outside their union headquarters as contract talks began, ADN said. The negotiations later collapsed, the agency reported. Workers are demanding that pay levels be brought up to West German standards by next year. The average East German earns less than half the average West German salary. Rents are being kept low to help compensate during the transition from 40 years of socialism to capitalism. But unemployment is expected to surge into the millions as East Germany faces stiff competition from West Germany. East Germany's Communist regime was overthrown last autumn.
AP900420-0167 	X	The state Senate voted 34-23 Friday to give final approval to a one-year ban on a hormone used to boost cows' milk output, making Minnesota the second major milk-producing state to do so. The Minnesota House passed the ban Thursday 68-59 despite protests from the state's dairy farmers that the action would put them at a competitive disadvantage. The measure follows a similar one approved by the Wisconsin Legislature last month. Minnesota and Wisconsin combined produce about 24 percent of the nation's milk. Rep. Chuck Brown, who led the charge for the moratorium in the Minnesota House, said he has received assurances that Gov. Rudy Perpich will sign the measure into law. Under the legislation, non-medical use of bovine growth hormone, known as BGH or bovine somatotropin, would be banned for a year. The protein is a synthetic version of a hormone that naturally appears in cows and is expected to win approval of the Food and Drug Administration for commercial use later this year. Brown and state Sen. Steve Morse urged the ban, saying more time is needed to study the potential effects of the drug on animals and humans. The legislation would keep the ban in effect as long as Wisconsin enforced a similar moratorium or if a consortium of states representing at least 40 percent of the nation's milk production adopted a ban on BGH. The Wisconsin Legislature approved a temporary moratorium last month that is awaiting the signature of Gov. Tommy Thompson. He has not said whether he will sign the measure. The companies that produce the hormone, Monsanto Agriculture Co., Eli Lilly Co., Upjohn Co. and American Cyanamid, have lobbied against such measures, saying the hormone has been more than adequately tested. Supporters of the synthetic hormone, including dairy farmers, a pharmacist and a veterinarian, took issue with opponents' contentions that the drug may not be safe and argued against legislative impediments on new technology. ``There's no credible evidence that there's any health hazard,'' said Rep. Jim Girard. ``This is just another tool to allow farmers to increase their production.'' Rep. Harriet McPherson likened BGH to milk machines, embryo transplants and other technological advances that have increased milk production.
AP881206-0005 	X	A former FBI agent who was the top agency contact for Jackie Presser's role as a Teamsters informant was jailed Monday for refusing to testify at the embezzlement and racketeering trial of two union officials. ``My position is the same as Friday,'' Robert S. Friedrick told U.S. District Court Judge George W. White, who revoked Friedrick's $1,000 bond and ordered him jailed to try to force him to testify under a grant of immunity. Friedrick's attorney, William D. Beyer, has appealed the judge's contempt citation of Friday to the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Cincinnati. Friedrick invoked his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination when called as a witness Friday. Prosecutors had tried to have three of his sworn sworn statements admitted as evidence but White ruled the material untrustworthy. Beyer said the Friedrick interviews on Jan. 8, 9 and 13 of 1986 conflicted with Friedrick's earlier testimony. Because there were two versions of his statement, Beyer said any new testimony could conflict with one or the other version and might put Friedrick in jeopardy of perjury charges. Government attorneys indicated they wanted to call Friedrick to the stand to prove that Presser's FBI informant ``handlers'' never authorized the union's hiring ``ghost employees'' who were paid for doing no work. Stephen H. Jigger, a government prosecutor, said Friedrick's testimony was crucial because, of three Presser FBI ``handlers,'' Friedrick sometimes was the only agent who attended meetings with Presser and Anthony Hughes, a co-defendant and recording secretary of Teamsters Local 507 in Cleveland. Hughes and Harold Friedman, a Teamsters international vice president and president of Local 507, are charged with plotting a $700,000 scheme to hire ``ghost employees.'' Presser, who was Teamsters international president, was indicted on similar charges, but died July 9 before going on trial. After Friedrick, who was fired by the FBI in August 1986, repeated his unwillingness to testify, deputy U.S. marshals took him into custody. The U.S. Marshal's Service said he was taken to the Justice Center lockup. The judge said Friedrick could be jailed for up to 18 months for criminal contempt. Jigger also asked the judge to consider delaying the trial to give Friedrick time behind bars to reconsider his unwillingness to testify. Jigger said the prosecution has just one more witness to call. William C. Lynch, a senior Justice Department trial attorney also on the prosecution team, said the grant of immunity would rule out use against Friedrick any testimony he gives in the current trial. The judge excused the jury until Wednesday for procedural arguments outside the its presence.
AP900607-0004 	X	Columbia will have to be rolled back to the hangar next week so NASA can repair a hydrogen leak, a move that leaves the shuttle's astronomy mission up in the air and disrupts the year's flight plans. ``Safety's the first priority, and we've got an item here which we absolutely have got to put to bed and we're going to do that,'' launch director Bob Sieck said Wednesday. The leak had forced NASA to scrub last week's launch of the shuttle with the $150 million Astro observatory. On Wednesday, a test in which super-cold liquid hydrogen was pumped into Columbia's big external fuel tank confirmed the leak is in a tight cavity between two metal plates that connect the orbiter and the tank, Sieck said. To fix the leak, the orbiter will have to be separated from the tank in the hangar, he said. Even then, it will be hard to pinpoint the leak because it seems to occur under extremely cold conditions only, Sieck said. Sieck declined to estimate when Columbia might be able to lift off. NASA officials have said it will take about a month to return the shuttle to the hangar and perform repairs. The move will take place sometime next week. The Astro mission is one of six remaining shuttle flights scheduled for 1990. It's virtually certain now one of the missions will be pushed into next year or later because of Columbia's problems. But Sieck said preparations for Atlantis' secret military flight in July will continue. Shuttles have been moved from the launch pad back to the hangar twice because of mechanical failures and once because of payload problems. When last week's launch attempt was scrubbed, Columbia's mission already was two weeks late because of cooling system repairs. ``It's always disappointing when the hardware is bad to you, and that looks like what we've got here,'' Sieck said. ``But we're reminded it's a complex system and things don't always go for the plan.'' Astro, an on-board observatory consisting of three ultraviolet telescopes and one X-ray telescope, was to have gone up in 1986. But the Challenger explosion postponed the mission, depriving NASA of the chance to see Halley's Comet. Comet Austin, discovered last year, is on its way out of the solar system, and the chances of seeing it grow slimmer every day.
AP881026-0132 	X	Republican George Bush today portrayed Michael Dukakis as the odd man out in opposing a reduction in capital gains taxes, and said his Democratic opponent is ``just itching to repeal'' income tax cuts enacted in President Reagan's first term. Fortified by new polls showing him with a double-digit lead, the vice president attacked Dukakis at a luncheon sponsored by the Detroit Economic Club and the Women's Economic Club. Playing it safe, Bush stuck to time-tested themes. The GOP nominee has proposed slashing the capital gains tax on profits from stocks, real estate and other assets from its current top of 33 percent to 15 percent. Dukakis denounced it as a tax break for the wealthy and said it would give Bush himself a $22,000 tax break annually. Defending his plan as a way to spur investments and create jobs, Bush said, ``Over the years, it's been endorsed by everyone from John F. Kennedy to Lloyd Bentsen to my running mate, Dan Quayle, to Ronald Reagan and George Bush.'' Bentsen is Dukakis' vice presidential running mate. ``It is not a tax break for the rich. It is a break for those who want to have a job in this country and I am for it,'' Bush said. ``Unfortunately, my opponent's only experience with business is regulating it and taxing it,'' Bush said. ``He's never run a business. He's never started a business. He's never met a payroll. He doesn't understand how when you're starting out, you need people to join you in taking risks. So he paints my proposal as an effort to help the rich.'' ``Wrong,'' Bush told his audience of 1,600 people. The vice president also said that since Reagan took office in 1981, the administration has cut personal income tax rates by an average 27 percent. He said there has been an undeniable link between low taxes and economic growth. Bush said Dukakis was asked during the Democratic primary race if he would repeal the 1981 tax cuts. He said Dukakis shrugged his shoulders and called the tax cut ``one of the worse bills that Congress every could have passed'' and ``a government-made disaster.'' Bush said, ``Those sound to me like the words of someone who is just itching to repeal one of the most successful economic policies in our history, and I know why. He has proposed mandated new spending, both by government and by business, that will cost ... billions and billions and billions.'' He said that if elected on Nov. 8, he will tell Congress that ``the American people, in electing me, voted against a tax increase'' and that instead, spending increases should be limited to the inflation rate. Bush told a GOP barbecue in Lima, Ohio, on Monday that the election was about keeping the country strong economically and militarily. ``We cannot gamble America's future on a president who hasn't had one single day's experience in national defense matters or foreign affairs,'' Bush said, winning cheers from the audience. A handful of hecklers shouted noisily at him during his speech, and Bush said, ``I'm glad they're here.'' He urged the audience to ask the protesters how high interest rates and inflation were during the last Democratic administration, and then supplied the answers _ 21 percent for the former and in double digits for the latter. Working his way toward the battleground state of California, where he will campaign later this week, Bush planned stops today at rallies at a stockyard in Sioux Falls, S.D., and at a high school in Billings, Mont. In the evening, he was flying to Tacoma, Wash., to campaign there Thursday morning. Whereas Michigan offers the prospect of 20 electoral votes, South Dakota has only three and Montana has only four. However, all three states are on Dukakis' blueprint for reaching the 270 needed to win the White House, so Bush is doing his best to keep them out of the Democratic column. His campaign was bouyed Tuesday by news of two new polls indicating that Bush has solidified his lead in the two weeks since the last presidential debate. A CBS News-New York Times poll showed Bush with a 13-point advantage, 54-41 percent, while a Gallup poll showed Bush with a 14-point edge, 53-39 percent. With things going his way, Bush stuck to a familiar theme Tuesday: hammering Dukakis about the economy during stops in Ohio in Canton, Columbus and Lima.
AP900704-0136 	X	A judge sentenced a defense contractor to three years in prison and fined him $750,000 for faking quality tests on engine bolts used in thousands of military and commercial aircraft. ``This is a very egregious case motivated primarily by greed and avarice,'' U.S. District Judge A. Wallace Tashima said Tuesday in sentencing Norman D. McHaffie, 56, former president of McHaffie Inc. of Sylmar. ``The actions of McHaffie literally weakened and endangered the national defense,'' Tashima said. No accidents were attributed to McHaffie bolts. The bolts were used in the Air Force B-1B strategic bomber, the Navy-Marine Corps F-18 Hornet fighter-attack aircraft, the Navy-Air Force A-7 Corsair II jet attack fighter, the Navy F-14 Tomcat fighter and the Air Force F-16 Fighting Falcon. They also were used in thousands of Boeing Co. and McDonnell Douglas Corp. commercial jets, the government said. Jack Gamble of Boeing Commercial Airplane Group said executives at the world's largest manufacturer of jetliners cooperated in the government investigation. ``We did quality checks on every (McHaffie-tested) bolt we had, and we had no bad bolts,'' Gamble said. Tashima also sentenced McHaffie's quality control supervisor, James Hicks, 45, of Sepulveda to 18 months in prison for participating in the scheme to submit false test certifications to the government. A shop floor manager, William Whitham, 37, of Lancaster, was previously sentenced to 20 weekends in prison. McHaffie pleaded guilty in April to conspiracy and two counts of submitting false test certifications to the Department of Defense. The other men also admitted wrongdoing. Prosecutors contended that McHaffie saved more than $1.5 million by failing to properly test some 9 million bolts between 1979 and 1989. Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen A. Mansfield said it was the longest-running fraud against the government by a defense contractor uncovered so far. McHaffie told Hicks and Whitman to create fake test data and fabricate reports to conceal the fraud, according to a federal complaint filed March 29. The government alleged bolts sent to General Electric Co.'s engine division failed testing by an outside laboratory. The discovery that many of the company's bolts failed to meet testing requirements also led to a massive effort to discard them from parts suppliers, prosecutors said. General Electric alone spent at least $4 million to test a sample of bolts, the government said. McHaffie shut down in June 1989 and sold off its assets.
AP880606-0167 	X	Firefighters on Monday mopped up remnants of blazes that charred nearly 2,200 acres in three Southern California counties, including one fire that destroyed six buildings and another started by boys playing with a toy rocket. No one was injured in any of the fires, officials said. In southeast Montana, hundreds of firefighters worked in 100-degree heat and winds of up to 25 mph to fight a wildfire that surged across 6,000 acres of grassland and timber on the Northern Cheyenne Indian Reservation Monday. Twenty smoke jumpers parachuted into the most difficult area at mid-morning, and officials called in a total of 400 firefighters during the day, said Keith Mosbaugh, fire boss for the interagency team trying to control the blaze. He said firefighters do not expect to contain the blaze before Thursday. No one was injured, Mosbaugh added. The fire broke out late Saturday or early Sunday and may have been caused by children playing with matches, said Mike Caprata, a fire management forester with the Bureau of Indian Affairs at Lame Deer. The cause was under investigation. The largest California blaze burned 1,800 acres on the outskirts of Desert Hot Springs, a community of 6,000 people 110 miles east of Los Angeles, said Cheri Hill, a dispatcher-clerk for the Riverside County Fire Department. Crews hoped to control the fire, or extinguish most of its flames, by Monday evening after more than 200 firefighters contained its spread 12 hours earlier, she said. The wind-whipped fire destroyed three homes and three other buildings and damaged another home, she said. The cause of the fire, which started Sunday afternoon in the center divider of Highway 62 about 4{ miles north of Desert Hot Springs, was under investigation, Ms. Hill said. Despite 15 mph to 30 mph winds, crews expected to control a 220-acre fire in the San Bernardino National Forest about 85 miles northeast of Los Angeles by Tuesday morning, after containing it at 8 a.m. Monday, said forest spokeswoman Lindsay Maierhofer. The blaze of unknown origin burned in dense pinon and juniper trees and destroyed an abandoned mining shack. It was reported early Sunday afternoon, and 390 firefighters, four helicopters and three air tankers were sent to the battle. A 170-acre brush and grass fire near the El Toro Marine Corps Air Station, 45 miles southeast of Los Angeles, was controlled at 9 p.m. Sunday, nearly seven hours after it was reported, said county fire department Capt. Patrick McIntosh. The fire was started by three teen-agers who were playing with a model rocket, he said. The three boys, ages 15, 16 and 17, were taken into custody and later released to their parents, McIntosh said, adding that ``the fire department will seek cost recovery from the parents for the firefighting operations. He said 150 firefighters fought the fire with equipment that included two fire-retardant-dropping planes.
AP901001-0146 	X	The Federal Reserve will move quickly to lower interest rates now that negotiators have reached agreement on a deficit-cutting plan, many economists predicted Monday. But these analysts said the interest rate relief will be too little and too late to avert a recession. This forecast was made on the eve of a key meeting Tuesday of the Fed's top policy-making group, the Federal Open Market Committee. The panel, composed of Fed board members in Washington and Fed regional bank presidents, meets eight times a year to set interest rate policies. President Bush told reporters Monday that he was looking for the Fed to lower interest rates ``once they see that a sound budget agreement has been put into effect.'' Bush and congressional leaders have pledged to try to write the agreement into legislation and enact it by Oct. 19. Many economists expected a vote at Tuesday's meeting to nudge short-term interest rates down by about one-fourth of a percentage point. The actual rate cut, they said, might come as early as next week. Some economists said the rate cut would be enough to prompt commercial banks to lower their benchmark prime lending rate from 10 percent to 9.5 percent, although there wasn't universal agreement on this forecast. Analysts who expect a fairly prompt Fed easing move noted numerous statements Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan has made that the central bank stood ready to lower interest rates following a credible, multiyear deficit reduction package. ``Greenspan has got to ease. If he doesn't, he is telling the financial markets that he doesn't view the deficit agreement as credible,'' said David Wyss, chief financial economist with DRI-McGraw Hill. Wyss said that if Congress showed evidence of moving quickly to approve the budget agreement and the September unemployment report, due out on Friday, showed a further rise in the jobless rate, then the Fed would move perhaps as early as next week to cut the federal funds rate from 8 percent to 7.75 percent. The Fed funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other for overnight loans, is the bellwether rate the Fed often uses to signal changes in its credit policies. Allen Sinai, chief economist of the Boston Co., said while he was looking for a quick rate cut on the Fed's part, markets should not expect anything beyond a quarter of a percentage point drop, given the inflationary pressures arising from a doubling of oil prices since August when Iraq invaded neighboring Kuwait. ``The Fed is being tossed back and forth by the Iraqi event,'' Sinai said. ``It wants to ease because of an impending recession but aggressive easing is very hard to do as long as the inflation threat is as great as it is.'' David Jones, an economist at Aubrey G. Lanston & Co., a government securities dealer in New York, said regardless of whether the Fed eases immediately or waits until Congress actually passes the budget agreement, the rate cut will not be in time to keep alive the current recovery, which has already lasted a peacetime record of eight years. ``The handwriting is on the wall,'' Jones said. ``The Fed has already waited too long if it had hoped to avoid a recession.'' Jones and many other analysts believe the first economic downturn since the 1981-82 slump will begin sometime in the final three months of this year. While a number of analysts forecast a Fed easing move to support a budget deal, this forecast was not universally shared. Jerry Jordan, chief economist of the First Interstate Bancorp of Los Angeles, said it would be a mistake for the Fed to rush to support the budget deal with lower interest rates. Jordan, one of a group of economists who monitor Fed actions as part of the Shadow Open Market Committee, warned that Fed efforts to ease rates ran the risk of allowing the higher inflation from this year's oil shocks to become embedded in the economy. Many analysts who believe the Fed will begin to ease rates in coming months said they looked for those rate cuts to accelerate early next year once it becomes clear the country is in a recession. Jones said the Fed will be forced next year to keep pushing rates down because the banking system - which already faces heavy losses from collapsing real estate markets - will move slower than it has in the past to lower the cost of loans to businesses and consumers in response to Fed easing moves.
AP880723-0060 	X	Johnny Carson, poking fun at Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton for the 35-minute speech that had Democratic conventioneers shouting and snoozing, invited him to appear on his ``Tonight Show.'' ``It would be great,'' Carson told his studio audience Friday night. ``We won't have to book any other guests.'' Carson said Clinton had been invited to appear on his late-night show next week. The governor's press secretary, Mike Gauldin, said in Little Rock that the invitation had been received, but didn't know if Clinton had accepted. Clinton's speech Wednesday night nominating Michael Dukakis for the Democratic presidential nomination was widely panned for its length _ Clinton had been allotted 15 minutes _ and its content, which many described as boring. In his monologue, Carson said the 5-foot-7 Dukakis looked taller when he delivered his acceptance speech Thursday ``because he was standing on a transcript of Gov. Bill Clinton's speech. ``It's kind of a sad footnote. Clinton's speech is still going on. Because of the greenhouse effect, it's still trapped in Atlanta,'' Carson said. Jackie Speer, an Arkansas State Police trooper assigned to the Governor's Mansion, said he believed Clinton was asleep when Carson's monologue began, and said the governor was not available for comment. When he returned to Little Rock on Friday, Clinton told reporters, ``Everybody knows I can make a speech. Now everyone knows I can blow one.''
AP881027-0099 	X	A Playboy magazine photographer will not be allowed to screen Providence College students for a ``Women of the Big East'' pictorial at either the Roman Catholic college or a Providence hotel, officials said. Photographer David Mecey had planned to meet with Providence College students for part of a Big East athletic conference layout scheduled for the April 1989 issue, Playboy spokeswoman Cindy Rakowitz said from New York. Mecey, who planned to stay in Providence from Wednesday through Friday, intended to interview and photograph women in various locations, including the Providence Marriott Inn where he had a reservation. The planned feature would include nude and semi-nude photos. The hotel's name and number were listed on a Playboy leaflet and in a quarter-page advertisement to appear in today's edition of The NewPaper, said Anne Trumbore, an employee at the weekly alternative newspaper. But Stephen McCarthy, the hotel's resident manager, said that when officials realized Wednesday morning who Mecey was, they decided not to allow him to conduct business at the hotel. Mecey was told by hotel officials when he arrived Wednesday night that he could not conduct interviews on hotel property. ``If he wants to stay here, he can. He has rented a room and we are in the business of renting rooms,'' said general manager Rene Neidhart. ``But he did not have our authorization to use our name in any advertisements, and he cannot interview or photograph in the hotel.'' ``I'm not entirely taken aback, but I think that's pretty drastic,'' said Rakowitz when informed of the Marriott's decision. ``That's sort of eliminating the rights of the individual to make a freedom of choice _ but a hotel is private property.'' Playboy also was banned from interviewing or staying at the Sheraton Tara in Braintree, Mass., when it interviews Boston College students in mid-November, said Jeff Cohen, Playboy's managing photo editor. Some people who arrived at the Marriott looking for Mecey were escorted off hotel property by security guards, said McCarthy. He said several people, both women and men, were removed from the lobby and floors. Playboy had decided against seeking the cooperation of administrators at any of the schools it will visit, deciding instead to advertise off-campus and in college newspapers. Playboy had hoped to run an ad in the Cowl, the student newspaper at the 3,800-student college, but students and administrators decided against it, said a school spokesman, the Rev. John McGreevy. Officials at St. John's University in New York, another Catholic school, decided earlier this month against running an article about the Playboy feature in its student newspaper. ``I'm still confident that we will recruit our women,'' said Rakowitz, who said about 20 women were wanted for the feature. ``I've never come into a problem at a hotel. I think it's sort of repressing.'' Other schools in the Big East Conference are Villanova University, in Villanova, Pa.; Washington's Georgetown University; Seton Hall University in South Orange, N.J.; the University of Connecticut; the University of Pittsburgh; and New York's Syracuse University.
AP880524-0147 	X	``M. Butterfly'' was chosen best play and ``Into the Woods'' was picked as best musical of the 1987-88 New York theater season by the Drama Desk, it was announced Tuesday. ``The Phantom of Opera,'' which lost the top musical prize, won the most awards _ seven. It picked up awards for actor in a musical, Michael Crawford; director of a musical, Harold Prince; music, Andrew Lloyd Webber; orchestrations, Andrew Lloyd Webber and David Cullen; set design, Maria Bjornson; costume design, Maria Bjornson; and lighting design, Andrew Bridge. Ron Silver was named best actor for his performance as a greedy Hollywood mogul in David Mamet's ``Speed-the-Plow,'' while Stockard Channing was chosen best actress for her portrait of a woman slowly going mad in Alan Ayckbourn's ``Woman in Mind.'' ``M. Butterfly,'' written by David Henry Hwang, tells the bizarre story of a French diplomat who has an affair with a transvestite Chinese opera singer. The play also won awards for its director, John Dexter, and for featured actor, B.D. Wong, who plays the opera star. ``Into the Woods,'' an adult fairy tale musical, captured five prizes. Besides best musical, it won for featured actor in a musical, Robert Westenberg; featured actress in a musical, Joanna Gleason; lyrics, Stephen Sondheim, and book of musical, James Lapine. Patti LuPone was named best actress in a musical for her raucous portrayal of Reno Sweeney in Cole Porter's ``Anything Goes.'' The show also won the best revival award as well as a prize for choreography, which went to Michael Smuin. The prize for featured actress in a play went to Christine Estabrook who played a retarded woman in ``The Boys Next Door,'' while an ensemble acting award was given the cast of the off-Broadway musical ``Oil City Symphony.'' Special Drama Desk awards were also announced for Michael Feinstein; Actors Equity Association, the Theater on Film and Tape Collection at Lincoln Center and the Yale Repertory Theater. The Drama Desk, which was started in 1949, is an association of New York drama critics, editors and reporters.
AP880220-0040 	X	A commuter plane crashed in heavy fog Friday night after takeoff from Raleigh-Durham Airport, and all 12 people aboard were feared dead, officials said. American Eagle Flight 378 was en route to Richmond, Va., with 10 passengers and two crew members when it went down in a wooded area at 9:27 p.m. about a mile from the 10,000-foot runway, said airport spokeswoman Teresa Damiano. ``I show them as fatal,'' said V.H. Steed, night duty officer with the Federal Aviation Agency in Atlanta. Witnesses said they heard an explosion and saw a fireball before the twin-engine plane with a seating capacity of 19 went down near a small residential area, Ms. Damiano said. She said no homes were hit. ``There are no anticipated survivors,'' she said. ``Indications are that the plane is in several pieces. There was a small bit of fire that was contained. There was no indication to the tower that the plane was in any danger prior to takeoff.'' Shortly after midnight, a woman was escorted into the terminal sobbing and asking, ``What happened?'' The woman, who declined to give her name, said her 13-year-old son was on the flight. She said she had received no official word on her son's fate. ``It sounded like a blast or something because they've been blasting down on this road, putting in sewer lines, and that's the way it sounded,'' said Mary H. Ward, who lives in a mobile home three miles from the airport. ``It wasn't too awful loud. It was kind of muffled. I wondered what it was, but there was nobody here but me so I didn't go out and look around.'' At Richmond International Airport, several people were waiting for information on the crash and on arrangements for travel to North Carolina, said a ground supervisor for American Airlines who refused to give his name. ``They can't believe it happened,'' said the man. ``Some people wish it was them.'' Most of the passengers were from Richmond, and the crew was based in Raleigh, he said. Investigators from the FAA and the National Transportation Safety Board in Washington will arrive Saturday, Steed said. American Eagle, an affiliate of American Airlines, had recently resumed flights from its base at Raleigh-Durham after filing for bankruptcy reorganization Jan. 15. The airline abruptly ceased flights Jan. 14, leaving some passengers stranded. In its bankruptcy filing, AVAir Inc., which operates American Eagle, claimed $9.2 million in assets and $12 million in liabilities.
AP901030-0157 	X	Axl Rose, lead singer of Guns N' Roses, was arrested Tuesday for allegedly hitting a neighbor woman over the head with a wine bottle during an argument about loud music, authorities said. Rose's neighbor Gabriela Kantor accused Rose of grabbing her keys and tossing them off a balcony before emptying a wine bottle and swinging it at her, said Los Angeles County Sheriff's Deputy Roger Hom. Rose was arrested and booked for investigation of assault with a deadly weapon. His business manager posted the $5,000 bail, said Deputy Bill Linnemeyer and arraignment was set for Nov. 20. Kantor was taken to a hospital for observation and released. In a statement, Rose denied both striking the woman and playing music loudly. Rose met with attorneys Tuesday to discuss whether to file a complaint seeking an injunction against Ms. Kantor, said Bryn Bridenthal, a spokeswoman for his record company, Geffen Records. ``He's been having problems with this woman for the past eight months,'' Bridenthal said. In an earlier incident, deputies went to Rose's apartment Aug. 1 to ask him to turn down his stereo. Rose later filed a complaint saying one deputy forced his way into the apartment while others tried to provoke him. Critics of the Los Angeles-based Guns N' Roses band have called the band's lyrics homophobic and racist. The band gained notoriety earlier this year after an obscenity-laced acceptance speech for a music award on live television.
AP880516-0209 	X	The keepers of clarinetist Benny Goodman's musical legacy on Monday unveiled a trove of performances by the King of Swing not previously available to collectors. A lilting, playful, swinging version of ``Sweet Georgia Brown,'' driven by Goodman's clarinet and spiced with a Zoot Sims saxophone solo, reverberated through a conference room of the Yale Club. The number was the first cut in a 50-minute recording released by Yale University and Musicmasters at a news conference in the club. Before now, that performance had been heard only by diners at the Rainbow Grill in Rockefeller Center in June 1967. It was part of 400 unreleased tapes Goodman bequeathed to Yale when he died two years ago. Yale music professor Harold E. Samuel said the new album is a sampler of the tapes in the Goodman archive. Future releases will be devoted wholly to particular playing dates or recording sessions. Samuel described the performances as ``a more spontaneous, relaxed Benny Goodman than you would find on many of his other recordings.'' Selections on the record include ``If I Had You'' from a 1955 gig at Basin Street East in 1955, ``Poor Butterfly'' at the 1958 Brussels World Fair and ``Cherokee,'' taped at Park Recording Co. in 1958 but never released. The album closes with a Fletcher Henderson arrangement of ``Blue Room,'' performed by a Goodman band that included drummer Louie Bellson and trumpeter Randy Sandke. ``I never stop being thrilled by this music,'' said Goodman's daughter, Rachel Edelson, who said she wants to make new generations aware of ``the scope of his contributions to the field of music.'' ``My children, at age 8 and 4, are learning it very very well,'' she said. ``Sometimes they complain about listening to it all the time, but I want them to know it, and I play it nonstop.'' She said that except for a scene in the 1938 movie ``Hollywood Hotel,'' no film exists of the quartet composed of Goodman, drummer Gene Krupa, pianist Teddy Wilson and vibraphonist Lionel Hampton, because moviemakers then would not show black and white players together. ``I knew about my father being the first white musician to have hired blacks, but I simply had not been aware of the level of resistance that he met and that he simply didn't care about,'' Mrs. Edelson said. Royalties from the new releases will pay the cost of maintaining the Goodman archive, which, in addition to the tapes, contain 1,500 arrangements, 5,000 photographs, scrapbooks and other memorabilia. Goodman died in 1986. Yale already has cataloged and indexed the arrangements, which Samuel said will be ``a boon to performers and scholars for generations to come.'' Preserving the tapes, dating from the 1950s, has been the first order of business, Samuel said. Most of the 1950s tapes are acetate and must preserved on sturdier digital stock. ``There might be only one playing left on some of the acetates, and that one playing has to be a transfer onto more permanent material,'' he said. Identifying the performances and choosing the best for commercial release is being done by Loren Schoenberg, an authority on Goodman's work. ``Goodman was a fantastic perfectionist, and we have an obligation to him not to release anything that he would not have released himself,'' said Samuel. The albums are being marketed in the three popular formats _ long playing record, tape cassette and compact disc.
AP900827-0010 	X	Children don't play outside here in the summer, and they go to school armed. Nearly everyone is enlisted in the battle against Public Enemy No. 1 _ mosquitoes. Williston, located at the confluence of the Missouri and Yellowstone rivers, is a kind of mosquito mecca. The rivers create an ideal breeding ground for hundreds of thousands of the insects. ``They're bad,'' says 23-year-old Kellee Cox, who moved to the area from Fargo last spring. ``I can't believe it. I've got a million mosquito bites. ``I went into my back yard and got swarmed with them,'' she says, revealing dozens of irritated red bites on her arms. ``They just swarmed over me and attacked me like killer bees.'' It isn't a new problem; explorers Lewis and Clark complained about the bugs during their brief visits to the rivers' confluence in 1805 and 1806. A historian called a mosquito attack of 1947 the worst on record. Some say the mosquitoes enjoy the predominantly Norwegian blood of the town's 13,000 residents. Others have proposed getting rid of the bugs by building a bubble over the town or setting up huge fans to blow them away. For years several agencies, including the impressive-sounding Vector Control District board, labored unsuccessfully to put down the insect uprising. ``Too many people were running the same program,'' says Bill Cole, chairman of the vector board. ``Things weren't getting done.'' But a new idea emerged from a heated city meeting last summer at which residents were challenged to come up with their own ideas for mosquito control. Two housewives joined a pediatrician, two teachers and the owner of a day care center to form the Bug Busters _ a volunteer group that studied ways to control the pests while protecting the environment. They enlisted the local high school, a woodworking club and the Army Corps of Engineers to make about two dozen mini-houses along the river, each designed to attract bats and sparrows _ natural mosquito predators. ``We're not importing bats or anything like that,'' said Bug Buster Jackie Stenehjem. ``The bats are already here. We're just hoping they'll move out of town and move into the houses along the river.'' Before the Bug Busters, the spraying of newly discovered larvae had to be approved by several agencies, taking up to a week. Now the decisions are in local hands and extermination can start within 10 minutes. In April, voters approved an annual fee of $12 per household to help bolster mosquito control. Despite a rough week or two, this summer generally was better than last. But children still stay mostly indoors and when they they go to school, they take cans of bug repellent with their pencils and notebooks. Residents try to make the best of the bug situation, which they recognize is an unwinnable war. ``It's a numbers game we're playing,'' Cole said. ``We just want to get it down to where it's livable.''
AP880508-0039 	X	Authorities are extending mandatory birth control to the far northwest's ethnic minorities, but they will be allowed more children than majority Hans, an official report said Sunday. As of July 1, minority couples in cities of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region will be limited to two children, and those in rural areas will be permitted three, the Xinhua News Agency said. Minority ethnic groups in Xinjiang total 8.6 million, or more than 61 percent of the population, the report said. Most Hans or ethnic Chinese, who make up more than 90 percent of China's 1 billion people, are limited to one child with the country struggling to feed and educate its spiraling population. However, the policy has been more relaxed toward China's 56 ethnic minority groups. The different standard toward minorities has been designed in part to win their loyalty to the Han-controlled government and allay their fears of being overwhelmed by ethnic Chinese.
AP901213-0030 	X	Frank Sinatra came home to New Jersey to celebrate his 75th birthday at a sold-out concert attended by celebrity pals and 19,000 adoring fans. The Hoboken native performed Wednesday at Byrne Arena, where celebrity guests included Tony Bennett, husband and wife Steve Lawrence and Eydie Gorme, actor Roger Moore, Robert Wagner and his wife, Jill St. John, comedians Alan King and Joe Piscopo, Eli Wallach and entertainer Harry Connick Jr. Liza Minnelli joined Ol' Blue Eyes on stage in singing ``New York, New York.'' Sinatra's shows here on Tuesday and Wednesday kicked off his nationwide 75th birthday tour.
AP901119-0241 	X	Tens of thousands of workers made sick by asbestos will receive sharply reduced compensation payments from the Manville trust under a plan unveiled Monday to resolve the nation's biggest product liability case. The long-awaited restructuring is designed to insure payments to victims of lung cancer and other respiratory ailments, clear a court backlog and create a model for companies facing huge liabilities for asbestos products. The plan includes up to $520 million in new contributions to the trust by Manville Corp., which was driven into bankruptcy court in 1982 by mounting asbestos lawsuits. The trust was formed in the company's 1988 reorganization and faces more than 130,000 claims. ``These steps ... will more effectively, efficiently and Equitably compensate those injured by asbestos exposure,'' Manville chairman and chief executive Tom Stephens said in a statement. The plan was expected to be approved by U.S. District Judge Jack B. Weinstein, who is leading efforts to resolve asbestos litigation. The judge Monday began a process to declare a class action to settle trust claims. A restructured trust would pay asbestos victims according to the severity of illness, rather than when a claim is filed. The plan slashes plaintiffs lawyers' fees to a maximum 25 percent of settlements. It also includes dismissing tens of thousands of lawsuits against the trust pending in state and federal courts nationwide. Asbestos health claims form the biggest product liability issue in U.S. history. Manville trust payments have averaged about $43,000, but are forecast to fall more than half for serious diseases and even more for less severe ailments. Claimants are to receive a maximum 45 percent of settlements until all claims are partially met. ``It is a terrible compromise,'' said Heather Maurer, executive director of the Asbestos Victims of America, an advocacy group representing 18,000 people. ``I$3,000 or $4,000 is in any way just compensation for their diseases and deaths.'' But architects of the plan said it was fair way to compensate victims given the limited funds available. The restructuring was ordered by Weinstein after the trust ran out of cash to pay new claims and said some would be deferred until long into the 21st century. ``Everybody is getting an (equal) share of the fair value of their claim,'' said GEne Locks, a Philadelphia plaintiffs lawyer. ``Some people are going to get it a little faster than others.'' Asbestos is a white mineral with natural insulation and heat resistance used widely for decades in shipbuilding, construction and other industries. A high incidence of lung cancer and other respiratory ailments attributed to asbestos began appearing in the 1970s. Under the Manville plan, payments would be made annually to claimants based on a percentage of the trust's available resources. Claims are split into two groups: cancer and other serious ailments, and lesser diseases. Payments would be made only to claims in the first group during the plan's first two years. An estimated 23,000 such claims are expected to get some money. The group includes relatives of workers who died before being compensated. The more than 100,000 claims in the second group would begin receiving payment in the plan's third year. Payments are to be made first to those with hardships, then according to disease severity, then to claimants over 70 years old and finally to those who filed first. Despite the progress, payments will not resume until Weinstein holds hearings and reviews the plan, or until expected court appeals by plaintiffs lawyers and other defendant companies are Heard. Lawyers estimate that payments might not resume for a year or more. The trust, formed in 1988, has paid out more than $1.1 billion to settle nearly 26,000 claims. A total of 163,000 claims have been filed and more arrive daily. The trust has $434 million in settled but unpaid claims, which will be met in full under the plan. Trust officials have blamed the cash crunch on more claims and bigger settlements than anticipated and faster case resolution. Critics have said the trust was badly managed, doling out too-large payments for minor ailments. The reduction in plaintiffs lawyers' fees from about one-third of settlements followed sharp criticism by Weinstein. ``The 25 percent limitation will over time provide the victims hundreds of millions of dollars that otherwise would have gone to their attorneys,'' Leon Silverman, the court-appointed adviser for the restructuring, said in his report to Weinstein. Dismissing lawsuits against the trust - primarily over the size of or delay in settlements - also should lead to savings. The trust expects more than $50 million in legal defense expenses this year. The plan establishes maximum settlements for specific diseases. They range from $350,000 for mesolthelioma, a fatal respiratory ailment, to $30,000 for pleural disease. Expected median settlements are about 40 percent of the maximum. Payments to all Manville claimants except those with urgent health or financial needs were suspended in July. The Washingon, D.C.-based trust originally was funded with about $3 billion in cash and Manville securities. Its main asset is 80 percent stock ownership of Manville, a Denver manufacturing and natural resources company.
AP900525-0043 	X	Government and business leaders said today President Bush's decision to continue favorable trade status for Beijing is welcome news for this British colony that relies heavily on commerce with China. Trade and Industry Secretary John Chan called Bush's move Thursday ``very good news from Hong Kong's point of view.'' In a statement, he noted that the business community and government had engaged in intensive lobbying during the past few weeks to explain how termination of special trade status would harm Hong Kong, which will return to Chinese sovereignty in 1997. Seto Fai, honorary president of the Chinese Manufacturers' Association, said the U.S. decision will help prevent Hong Kong from sliding into economic recession. ``Hong Kong is already experiencing a slowing of economic growth and could not afford to stand a blow from the United States,'' he said. ``Now, we have at least another year to breathe.'' The news drew little response from the stock market, which had rallied sharply earlier in the week on expectation that Bush would renew China's most-favored-nation trade status. The blue-chip Hang Seng Index today rose 20 points in early trading before finishing the morning session virtually unchanged at 3,049. The market had gained 130 points in the preceding five sessions, largely on anticipation of the U.S. decision. Most-favored-nation status gives Chinese exports to the United States the lowest possible tariffs. Denial would send tariffs rising sharply on about $12 billion in annual imports from China of textiles, toys and other products. Much of the Chinese exports to the United States are produced in joint-venture factories set up by Hong Kong investors in southern China. About 70 percent of Chinese products sent to the U.S. market are shipped through Hong Kong, Seto said. ``Hong Kong nowadays shares an inseparable economic link with China. Any threat to sanction China economically would inevitably drag us into it,'' said Carson Chan, assistant director for the Federation of Hong Kong Industries. He said termination of the special trade status for China would have resulted in at least 20,000 Hong Kong people losing their jobs in industries such as trade, transportation and banking. Hong Kong's economy already is experiencing high inflation and sluggish growth, with the gross domestic product forecast to rise only 3 percent this year. Industrialists expressed confidence that the U.S. Congress will not reject Bush's decision, despite opposition by some lawmakers.
AP900716-0023 	X	A dancer for the rap group Heavy D & The Boyz died after falling 30 feet during horseplay at an arena, authorities said. Troy Dixon, 22, whose stage name is Trouble T-Roy, died Sunday evening of of injuries suffered in the fall, said officials at Wishard Hospital. Police said Dixon was standing on the third-level ramp at the Market Square Arena late Saturday when another group member, while fooling around, rolled a trash barrel down the ramp toward him. Dixon jumped on a 4-foot retaining wall to avoid the barrel and fell over backward to the ground, police said. ``It was an absolute freaky accident,'' said group manager Carol Kirkendaul. The Rev. Charles R. Williams, president of Indiana Black Expo, said the group had performed at the arena earlier Saturday as part of the Black Expo. The group, from Mount Vernon, N.Y., was on a 10-city tour and was one of the headline acts for Black Expo, which also featured the rap group Public Enemy. Kirkendaul said the group is in shock, and an upcoming concert in Detroit had been postponed. Heavy D & The Boyz won a Soul Train Music Award and a NAACP Image Award for their album ``Big Tyme.''
AP880625-0106 	X	The nation's capital had plenty of attention-grabbers last week _ a juicy Pentagon scandal, Ronald Reagan's last summit, a new $16 million House of Representatives phone system that went deaf _ but here's what Washington was really talking about: A fugitive ferret named Fuji, its combative owner, and a 5-year-old boy. Not even Carl Rowan's uninvited, underwear swimmer _ the 18-year-old suburban lad shot after taking an unauthorized dip in the columnist's pool _ could match the continuing drama. The ferret's owner, 19-year-old Jennifer Au, was on a weekend furlough from jail where she spent the week charged with contempt of court for not telling where Fuji is. The boy, Auston Jacob Simpson, was nearing the end of a painful series of six rabies shots. The story began June 3 when Auston's grandmother took him to the Docktor Pet Center in Manassas, Va., a Washington suburb. He stopped by a cage containing Fuji and two other ferrets. One bit him. Authorities then sought to kill each of the ferrets and test their innards for rabies. Two of the ferrets were sacrificed _ their heads cut off and their brains examined by health officials, who found the animals to have been healthy. But Fuji was spirited away by Miss Au, who worked in the pet shop. In court, charged with concealing the animal, she said she left the ferret at an abandoned house after making a deal over the telephone with someone she didn't know to have it picked up. The anonymous phone contact apparently was made after the biting incident became known to a group of ferret lovers. Miss Au told Circuit Judge Percy Thornton that said she saw the boy being bitten and that Fuji didn't do it. Moreover, she said, the ferret had been isolated in a cage for more than a month, and its continued good health proved it didn't have rabies. She said she had tried to comply with the judge's order to produce the animal by contacting ferret groups, but the judge was unsympathetic. ``You're putting this child at risk,'' Thornton said and found her in contempt. When she shouted at him, the judge ordered her jailed for three hours. ``I think your priorities are mixed up,'' said Thornton. A weekend went by and the ferret still had not been produced. Thornton ordered Miss Au to jail. ``If it were in this court's power,'' said the judge, ``I would put you through the same thing this child is going through.'' On Thursday, with the ferret still missing, Miss Au appeared before the judge for a bond hearing and was turned down. On Friday, Thornton issued the weekend leave and ordered the young woman back behind bars on Monday. Meanwhile, a second person _ a 24-year-old man who was not publicly identified _ was scheduled to begin the rabies shots after he said he was bitten by a ferret in the same store. The ferret battle was fought not only in court, but in the pages of the Washington Post. An editorial sided with the judge and his hard line. ``It is truly contemptible that this woman and her confederates have chosen to put a child through this torture rather than obey a court order and the dictates of common decency,'' said the Post. But in the same issue, writer Henry Mitchell allied himself with the ferret. ``There has to be some reasonable basis for thinking this particular ferret, despite testimony to the contrary, bit the boy, and from everything you could read of the case there was no reason to doubt the woman when she swore it was not her ferret,'' he wrote. The ferret story was not the clear winner in the talk-of-the-town competition. The Rowan-intruder story resurfaced when authorities decided to charge the uninvited swimmer and the young woman arrested with him in Rowan's back yard, but not to charge the columnist for shooting the young man. The on-again, off-again phone system in the House was a one-day sensation, causing impassioned denunciations from congressmen who found their link to constituents interrupted. And the Pentagon procurement scandal continued to bubble. The week's most telling quote came from Miss Au, when she was jailed on Monday: ``This is extremely stupid and ridiculous, needless,'' she said. ``This has gone too far.''
AP880705-0032 	X	Here are thumbnail sketches of figures in the burgeoning probe into allegations that defense contractors and consultants, many of them former military personnel, bribed Pentagon officials for contracting details to help win lucrative military contracts.
AP880405-0015 	X	Attorney General Edwin Meese's wife, Ursula, will undergo questioning shortly in the criminal investigation of her husband about her own $40,000-a-year job, say sources familiar with the case. The office of independent counsel James McKay is trying to determine whether longtime Meese friend E. Robert Wallach in effect helped supplement the Meeses' income by recommending Mrs. Meese for jobs, said sources familiar with the probe, speaking on condition of anonymity. Mrs. Meese has retained the same Washington law firm representing her husband, said James Rocap, one of Meese's lawyers. She will either make a federal grand jury appearance or be questioned by investigators from McKay's office. McKay said last week that his investigation of Meese, also encompassing an examination of the circumstances surrounding Mrs. Meese's job, would continue at least until the end of April. McKay last month subpoenaed records relating to Mrs. Meese's post with the Washington chapter of the Multiple Sclerosis Society, said a lawyer for the chapter, James Bierbower. A lawyer for Wallach, George Walker, has told The Washington Post that Wallach had suggested Mrs. Meese for a job with a local radio station owned by the Bender family of Washington. Mrs. Meese took the position with the MS Society instead. However, Bierbower said the Bender Foundation of Washington, controlled by the same family that owns the radio station, is contributing the $40,000 a year that constitutes Mrs. Meese's salary with the MS group. Calls to the Bender Foundation seeking its reasons for paying Mrs. Meese's salary were not returned. Mrs. Meese has been a volunteer for the MS Society since 1981 and for the past two years has been in charge of a program called Operation Job Match, matching MS victims with employers. Mrs. Meese also was questioned in an earlier independent counsel's investigation of Meese in 1984. In that investigation, independent counsel Jacob Stein probed Meese's failure to include in his financial disclosure statements a $15,000 loan by Edwin Thomas to Mrs. Meese. Thomas later became Meese's assistant counselor at the White House. The independent counsel found no connection between the loan and federal jobs obtained by Thomas, his wife and his son. In another development Monday, Justice Department sources said Meese will face an ethics investigation by his own department's Office of Professional Responsibility if McKay doesn't seek an indictment. Such an inquiry ultimately could lead to a recommendation to President Reagan that Meese be fired. Former Assistant Attorney General William Weld's files on the attorney general's dealings with Wallach were moved to OPR last Friday, the sources said. Material collected by Weld's criminal division last year led to McKay's criminal investigation of Meese. McKay said Friday he has insufficient evidence to date to warrant seeking an indictment of Meese in connection with his involvement with a $1 billion Iraqi oil pipeline touted by Wallach or his involvement with the regional Bell telephone companies at a time when he held $14,000 in Baby Bell stock. In December, McKay said he didn't have sufficient evidence at that time to warrant seeking an indictment of Meese in connection with his assistance to scandal-plagued Wedtech Corp. McKay said that if he decides not to seek a criminal indictment of Meese, the independent counsel's office ``will refer all of those matters for review and action by the appropriate administrative authorities,'' a reference to OPR. OPR's chief, Michael Shaheen, denied assertions by Justice Department sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, that his office had begun examining Meese's ties to longtime friend Wallach last year. That review was halted when McKay launched his criminal investigation of Meese last May 11, the sources said.
AP900911-0270 	X	National contract talks between the United Auto Workers and General Motors Corp. continued Tuesday after a union executive told local leaders to prepare the troops for a strike. Negotiators were working against a midnight Friday deadline to reach a national contract covering about 300,000 active GM workers. UAW contracts with Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. also expire at the same time, but the union has chosen GM as its target for a strike. In all, more than 450,000 active auto workers are covered by UAW contracts with the Big Three automakers. The union's main bargaining goal is job security, and a union telephone recording said Tuesday that little progress had been made on that issue. ``The corporation must become more serious in their attitude,'' said UAW Vice President Stephen Yokich, in charge of the union's GM bargaining team. He told local union leaders they should be ready for a strike. ``I trust that you will do everything necessary to prepare the membership for a disciplined response to whatever action is required in the difficult days ahead,'' Yokich said. The last time the UAW struck GM over a national contract was in 1984, when the union staged a weeklong walkout at 12 assembly plants and the company's Technical Center in Warren, Mich. This year, members of UAW Local 659 at GM's AC Rochester West component plant in Flint staged a six-day strike that shut down seven assembly plants and parts of more than a dozen component factories. ``We haven't heard hardly anything,'' said UAW Local 662 Vice President Larry Howerton of Anderson, Ind. ``We're going to have to hear something pretty soon. We've got to be notified.'' There has been little news coming out of the talks this year. UAW and GM officials have been available to media only occasionally and when they have appeared, they rarely talked about contract details. They have preferred instead to say both sides were working hard and there still was time to reach an agreement before the deadline. So far, union officials have said tentative agreements have been reached on nearly all non-economic issues, such as military leave and jury duty provisions. But the economic issues, which include job security, are the tough ones. The UAW leadership has a strong strike authorization vote under its belt, clearing the way for it to call a strike against GM if an agreement cannot be reached.
AP881122-0059 	X	James Earl Ray, who pleaded guilty to assassinating the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., says he was framed to cover up an FBI plot to kill the civil rights leader and wants the government to reopen his case. Ray, 60, was sentenced to serve 99 years for King's murder in Memphis, Tenn., on April 4, 1968. The Tennessee parole board has scheduled a January parole hearing for him, but Ray says he is not hopeful. ``I doubt very much they'll give me a parole,'' he said. ``I think the only way I'll get out of here is through a jury. If they wouldn't grant me a trial I don't see how they'll grant me a parole.'' Ray pleaded guilty on the day his trial was to begin on March 9, 1969, but recanted three days later and has not received a complete trial to prove his innocence. He alleges the FBI threatened to jail his father and brother if he didn't sign a confession. Ray's father was a fugitive from prison and his brother spent several years in jail. In an interview at Brushy State Prison in East Tennessee with talk show host Morton Downey Jr., Ray claimed he was set up in a plot to kill King, whose calls for economic justice for minorities and effective use of non-violent protest drew the wrath of then-FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover. He said the government has refused his requests to review the evidence against him, has never conducted ballistics tests on the alleged murder weapon and has suppressed witnesses and investigations that could have cleared him. ``Since they won't, they must be hiding something,'' Ray said of the FBI. The show is scheduled to be aired Nov. 28. King was in Memphis the day of his assassination to support a strike by city sanitation workers seeking higher pay. Ray was identified from fingerprints on a rifle found near the Lorraine Motel in Memphis where King was killed as he stood on a balcony. Hosea Williams, an aide to King present when he was shot, said during taping Monday of ``The Morton Downey Jr. Show '' that ``I've never believed Ray killed Dr. King.'' Williams said King was convinced that Hoover's FBI was plotting his death. He also said he was surprised to find days after the assassination that ``Ray had no political philosophy. He was just a two-bit redneck hustler.'' Many blacks have expressed anger that the Tennessee board has scheduled a January parole hearing for Ray. Under a 1985 law providing parole hearings for inmates held for 20 years, Ray became eligible for parole consideration this month. The law was designed to allow the state to relieve prison overcrowding. James M. Brown, chairman of the Tennessee Voters Council and a member of the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. State Holiday Committee, called Ray's parole hearing ``cruel, dangerous and shameful,'' and said he would ask Gov. Ned McWherter to call it off. He noted the hearing in January would coincide with the Jan. 16 holiday honoring King's birthday. But McWherter told reporters Monday that he will not interfere with the decision of the board, which by law is an independent state agency.
AP880413-0170 	X	Black Denison University students called off a two-day boycott of classes Wednesday after the school's president stiffened the punishment for two white students found guilty of racial harassment. The Black Student Union, which had called the boycotts Monday and Tuesday, suspended the action after university President Andrew De Rocco ordered the two whites to leave the campus for the remainder of the semester. The students, who have not been identified by the university, were given until 5 p.m. Wednesday to leave. The University Judicial Board, comprised of four students and four faculty members, had earlier found the white students guilty of racial harassment of a black student and ordered the whites be suspended for the 1988 fall term. That suspension will remain in effect, but De Rocco on Tuesday night announced the additional sanctions. ``The issues raised by this case have led to an expression of intense feelings on the campus among students, faculty and others, to an interruption of classes and to an atmosphere that is not conducive to the orderly processes of student and faculty life,'' De Rocco said. The two white students were accused of harassing Aaron Laramore, a black senior from Toledo. Laramore claimed in a complaint he filed against the students that they pounded on the wall between their room and his and yelled racial epithets. The white students testified in their judicial board hearing that their remarks came in a private conversation. But the Black Student Union said the slurs were aimed at Laramore, the dormitory's head resident. Most students continued to attend classes during the two-day boycott, which was accompanied by rallies to protest campus racism and the initial one-semester suspensions. Bheki Khumalo, a member of the Black Student Union, said Wednesday said the group was not fully satisfied with the university's latest action, but believed the protest had accomplished its goal. ``Evidently, this was the best the president could do,'' Khumalo said. ``We've laid the foundation for more things to come on our campus.'' About 80 of Denison's 2,100 undergraduates are black, according to the university, a liberal arts school about 25 miles northeast of Columbus.
AP901009-0233 	X	101. John Hugh MacMillan III, $730, Hillsboro Beach, Fla., inheritance (Cargill Inc.), 62. 102. Marion MacMillan Pictet, $730, Geneva, inheritance (Cargill Inc.), 57. 103. Whitney MacMillan, $730, Minneapolis, inheritance (Cargill Inc.), 61. 104. Cargill MacMillan Jr., $730, Palm Springs, Calif., inheritance (Cargill Inc.), 63. 105. Pauline MacMillan Keinath, $730, St. Louis, inheritance (Cargill Inc.), 56. 106. James Howard Marshall II, $725, Houston, oil, 85. 107. Joseph Albert Albertson, $725, Boise, Idaho, Albertson's Inc., 84. 108. William Morse Davidson, $725, Bloomfield Hills, Mich., Guardian Industries Corp., 67. 109. Samuel Curtis Johnson, $720, Racine, Wisc., Johnson Wax, 62. 110. Barbara Piasecka Johnson, $715, Princeton, N.J., inheritance (Johnson & Johnson), 53. 111. Wallace Henry Coulter, $710, Miami Springs, Fla., blood equipment, 78. 112. Morton K. Blaustein, $700, Baltimore, inheritance (oil), 63. 113. Robert Henry Dedman, $700, Dallas, country clubs, 64. 114. William Michael Cafaro, $700, Hubbard, Ohio, shopping malls, 77. 115. Michael Robert Milken, $700, Encino, Calif., financier, 44. 116. George Phydias Mitchell, $700, Houston, oil, 71. 117. Carl Ray Pohlad, $680, Minneapolis, MEI Corp., 75. 118. Andrew Jerrold Perenchio, $665, Bel Air, Calif., television, 59. 119. William Redington Hewlett, $665, Portola Valley, Calif., Hewlett-Packard, 77. 120. John Richard Simplot, $660, Boise, Idaho, potatoes, 81. 121. Albert Lee Ueltschi, $655, Irvine, Texas, Flight Safety International, 73. 122. Jerry J. Moore, $650, Houston, shopping centers, 62. 123. Leon Hess, $650, New York City, Amerada Hess Corp., 76. 124. Oveta Culp Hobby, $650, Houston, media, 85. 125. William Ingraham Koch, $650, Palm Beach, Fla., inheritance (oil services), 50. 126. Amos Barr Hostetter Jr., $635, Boston, cable television, 53. 127. Helen Kinney Copley, $630, La Jolla, Calif., publishing, 67. 128. John Murdoch Harbert III, $625, Birmingham, Ala., construction, 69. 129. Richard Mellon Scaife, $625, Shadyside, Pa., inheritance, (publishing), 58. 130. Howard Butcher Hillman, $620, Greenwich, Conn., inheritance (industry), 56. 131. Tatnall Lea Hillman, $620, Radnor, Pa., inheritance (industry), 52. 132. Meshulam Riklis, $620, Beverly Hills, Calif., and New York City, finance, 66. 133. William Clay Ford, $610, Grosse Pointe Shores, Mich., inheritance (Ford Motor Co.), 65. 134. Fred A. Lennon, $600, Chagrin Falls, Ohio, valves, 84. 135. Frederick Woodruff Field, $600, Beverly Hills, Calif., inheritance (media), 38. 136. Melvin Simon, $600, Indianapolis, shopping centers, 63. 137. Alexander Gus Spanos, $600, Stockton, Calif., real estate, 67. 138. Ralph Lauren, $600, New York City and vicinity, apparel, 51. 139. James Lawrence Walton, $580, Bentonville, Ark., Wal-Mart Stores, 68. 140. Shelby Cullom Davis, $575, Tarrytown, N.Y., investment banking, 81. 141. Charles Henry Dyson, $575, New York City, conglomerator, 81. 142. Roy Edward Disney, $575, Los Angeles, Walt Disney Productions, 60. 143. William Wrigley, $565, Lake Geneva, Wisc., Wrigley's, 57. 144. Donald John Tyson, $565, Springdale, Ark., Tyson Foods, 60. 145. Nelson Peltz, $560, Palm Beach, Fla., Bedford, N.Y., leveraged buyouts, 48. 146. Thomas Stephen Monaghan, $550, Ann Arbor, Mich., Domino's Pizza, 53. 147. Henry R. Kravis, $550, New York City, leveraged buyouts, 46. 148. George R. Roberts, $550, San Francisco, leveraged buyouts, 47. 149. Jeremy Maurice Jacobs, $550, East Aurora, N.Y., sports concessions, 50. 150. Thomas John Flatley, $550, Milton, Mass., real estate, 59. 151. Howard Kaskel, $550, New York City, real estate, 53. 152. Louis Larrick Ward, $545, Kansas City, Mo., Russell Stover Candies Inc., 70. 153. Estee Lauder, $540, New York City, cosmetics, 82. 154. Leonard Alan Lauder, $540, New York City, cosmetics, 57. 155. Ronald Steven Lauder, $540, New York City, cosmetics, 46. 156. Marshall Field V, $540, Lake Forest, Ill., inheritance (media), 49. 157. Robert William Galvin, $540, Barrington Hills, Ill., Motorola, 68. 158. Cordelia Scaife May, $525, Ligonier, Pa., inheritance (Mellon family), 62. 159. Laszlo Nandor Tauber, $525, Potomac, Md., real estate, 75. 160. James LeVoy Sorenson, $525, Salt Lake City, medical devices, 69. 161. Frank Batten, $520, Virginia Beach, Va., publishing, 63. 162. David Geffen, $515, Malibu, Calif., music, 47. 163. Roy Hampton Park, $510, Ithaca, N.Y., Park Communications, 80. 164. John G. Rangos Sr., $505, Pittsburgh, solid waste, 61. 165. Dorrance Hill Hamilton, $500, Strafford, Pa., inheritance (Campbell Soup), 62. 166. Charlotte Colket Weber, $500, Ocala, Fla., inheritance (Campbell Soup), 47. 167. Jerome Spiegel Kohlberg Jr., $500, Mount Kisco, N.Y., leveraged buyouts, 65. 168. Joseph S. Gruss, $500, New York City, oil, 87. 169. Henry John Heinz III, $500, Fox Chapel, Pa., H.J. Heinz Co., 52. 170. Robert Alfred Lurie, $500, San Francisco, inheritance (real estate), 61. 171. Bernard Francis Saul II, $500, Chevy Chase, Md., banking, 58. 172. Robert Staples Howard, $500, Rancho Santa Fe, Calif., publishing, 66. 173. Dennis Washington, $500, Missoula, Mont., entrepreneur, 56. 174. John Orin Edson, $500, Seattle, manufacturing, 57. 175. Harold Brown, $500, Boston, real estate, 65. 176. Sheldon Henry Solow, $500, New York City, real estate, 62. 177. Joe Lewis Allbritton, $500, Houston, media, 65. 178. William Edward Maritz, $500, St. Louis, Maritz Inc., 61. 179. Richard E. Jacobs, $500, Lakewood, Ohio, shopping centers, 65. 180. Henry Earl Singleton, $500, Los Angeles, Teledyne, 73. 181. Erskine Bronson Ingram, $500, Nashville, Tenn., barges, 58. 182. Peter Stephen Kalikow, $500, New York City, real estate, 47. 183. Caroline Rose Hunt, $500, Dallas, inheritance (oil), 67. 184. Frederick Robinson Koch, $500, New York City, Monaco, inheritance (oil services), 56. 185. Charles Cassius Gates Jr., $490, Denver, Gates Corp., 69. 186. Maurice Raymond Greenberg, $480, New York City, American International Group, 65. 187. Alan Ashton, $475, Orem, Utah, WordPerfect, 45. 188. Bruce Bastian, $475, Orem, Utah, WordPerfect, 39. 189. Hope Hill van Beuren, $470, Middletown, Pa., inheritance (Campbell Soup), 56. 190. A. Donald McCulloch Jr., $470, Bryn Mawr, Pa., diet centers, 43. 191. William S. Paley, $460, New York City, CBS Inc., 89. 192. William Gordon Bennett, $460, Las Vegas, Circus Circus Enterprises, 65. 193. Patrick Joseph McGovern, $450, Nashua, N.H., publishing, 53. 194. Samuel Zell, $450, Chicago, real estate, 49. 195. John Jeffry Louis Jr., $450, Winnetka, Ill., inheritance (Johnson Wax), 65. 196. John William Berry Sr., $450, Dayton, Ohio, Yellow Pages, 68. 197. Barbara Tyson, $450, Fayetteville, Ark., Tyson Foods, 41. 198. Bernard F. Brennan, $450, Winnetka, Ill., Montgomery Ward, 52. 199. Franklin Parsons Perdue, $450, Salisbury, Md., chickens, 70. 200. Luigino Francesco Paulucci, $450, Sanford, Fla., food processing, 72.
AP880318-0060 	X	A black man went to the gallows alone today after a judge granted a stay of execution to the ``Sharpeville Six,'' who were aided in their appeal by an international clemency campaign. The pre-dawn hanging of Tsepo Letsoara, 24, concluded without fanfare, while world leaders, clergymen and politicians continued to plea with the government to save the ``Sharpeville Six.'' Letsoara was convicted of the murder of a black woman in a Port Elizabeth township in October 1985, during nationwide racial unrest. The victim, Grace Mvetye, was killed by the ``necklace'' method, in which a gasoline-soaked tire was placed around her neck and set ablaze. The ``Sharpeville Six,'' five black men and a woman, would have joined Letsoara on the gallows today had Pretoria Supreme Court Justice Willem Human not granted a one-month stay of execution Thursday. Human made his decision after defense lawyers presented evidence of perjury by one of the prosecution's chief witnesses. Human granted the convicts four weeks to apply for a retrial. The case was controversial because the six were convicted under the principle of ``common cause,'' which held them responsible for the September 1984 death of town councilor Jacob Dlamini because they among a mob of 100 that stoned and burned Dlamini to death in Sharpeville. Dlamini was killed on the first day of riots that lasted nearly three years and claimed more than 2,500 black lives. President P.W. Botha had ignored pleas from leaders of most Western nations and from countries and organizations around the world to stop the executions. The government said Human's decision ``proves the wisdom of the state president and his ministers in deciding not to impede the due process of law. The government also indicated a link between the scheduled hangings and a car bomb that exploded Thursday in Krugersdorp, killing three black people and injuring 20 people. The explosion occurred in a Magistrate's Court where the Sharpeville Six had been held briefly between their arrest and trial. Police offered a $25,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of a white man they say is a member of the outlawed African National Congress. The man was described as the prime suspect in the bombing. Deputy Minister of Information Stoffel Van der Merwe said neither pressure from overseas nor car bombs would persuade the government to interfere in a court case. The Star, an independent Johannesburg newspaper, reported today that Botha granted clemency three weeks ago to a black policeman who was sentenced to death for murdering a youth two years ago in Mamelodi, the black township outside Pretoria. A spokesman for the Department of Justice said Botha commuted Constable George John Sindane's death sentence to eight years in prison. The spokesman said Sindane was one of five people whose death sentences were commuted this year. In other developments Thursday, _ Attorneys said a $2.25 million wrongful arrest lawsuit was begun against the Ministry of Law and Order after charges of sedition and subversion were dropped against a black Roman Catholic nun and 13 others who lived in black townships outside Krugersdorp. Sister Bernard Ncube, president of the Federation of Transvaal Women, spent 16 months in detention, including 13 in solitary confinement, after being charged. The state alleged that the group established ``kangaroo'' courts, campaigned against the police and initiated a boycott of white-owned shops and buses. The charges were dropped Thursday after the prosecution refused to supply a court with details of the alleged acts. _Also, the attorney for freed African National Congress leader Govan Mbeki said the government denied his request for a passport, which he sought to visit his three children living in exile. Attorney Priscilla Jana said no reason was given for the denial. Mbeki was freed from prison in November after serving 24 years of a life sentence for treason and sabotage in connection with his activities as national chairman of the ANC. His oldest son, Thabo, is an executive member of the ANC in exile in Lusaka, Zambia. Since his release from prison, Mbeki has been restricted to the Port Elizabeth area, and banned from giving public speeches or news interviews.
AP900505-0095 	X	Thousands of Czechs joined U.S. veterans Saturday for a sun-kissed streetfest in the first celebration ever of the liberation of this beer-brewing city by American troops in World War II. Pubs were turned into imitations of Wild West saloons, and youths with American Army paraphernalia rode the streets on vintage Harley-Davidson motorcycles inherited from their parents. Up to 150,000 visitors were expected to descend on Pilsen, a city of 130,000, on Sunday, when President Vaclav Havel and U.S. Ambassador Shirley Temple Black were to preside over the close of the two-day celebration. Gen. George C. Patton's 3rd Army liberated Pilsen on May 6, 1945, just three days before World War II ended in Prague. By agreement with the Soviets, American troops came to a halt at the demarcation line cutting southwest through Czech territory, leaving the Red Army to conquer the Czechoslovak capital. ``Boy, everybody wanted to go on to Prague and get it over with,'' said Cpl. Ross Johnston, 75, an attorney from Zanesville, Ohio. ``But we had to stop here, wait for two weeks and then we were pulled out.'' The Communists barred any commemoration of the U.S. liberation of about 3,600 miles of Czechoslovak territory and marked May 5 as a day of liberation by Soviet troops. Six months after Czechoslovakia's peaceful revolution in December, however, the atmosphere in this grim industrial city had changed remarkably. American flags adorned the former bastions of Communist officials, and scores of U.S. veterans were in town for the celebration. Tens of thousands of people turned out Saturday morning to see the ceremonial inauguration of a monument to the 2nd Infantry Divison on Pilsen's downtown Republic Square. Those who lived long enough to see the return of Patton's men still remember the postwar atmosphere. ``It felt so right that our town was freed from the Nazis by a western army,'' Frantisek Kotva, a pensioner, mused over a mug of the city's famous beer. ``We all loved the GIs, but then we had to forget about them for a long time,'' he said, alluding to the four decades of Communist suppression that followed. Elsewhere in Czechoslovakia, the occasion was marked with quieter ceremonies. Ambassador Temple Black joined Jan Urban, the leader of the Civic Forum movement that led the revolution against the Communists, at the unveiling of a memorial to the U.S. Army in Vitejovice, about 70 miles southwest of Prague. A similar plaque was unveiled in the nearby town of Chodov. In Lipnik and Bevcou, crowds gathered to remember Martin Zeberski, a U.S. pilot killed there in August 1944. Havel and Temple Black will lead Sunday's festivities in Pilsen, which were to begin with a morning ceremony at the demarcation line and end with a ``country ball.'' ``I've been to several similar events, but this is much bigger than any of us expected,'' Johnston said. ``If the very president of the United States came here in person, he could not be shown more courtesy and respect than we were.''
AP900903-0069 	X	Gang members thwarted in an attempt to attack rivals rampaged through the city, killing one person and wounding up to nine others, police said Monday. The victims apparently were chosen at random during a four-hour spree of shootings and robberies Sunday night throughout this central California city of 350,000 people, said Sgt. Mike Guthrie. ``There doesn't seem to be any identifiable pattern,'' Guthrie said. ``I think it was more driving until they saw an opportunity and taking it.'' Police arrested four boys, ages 14, 15, 16 and 17, and confiscated five guns early Monday. All of those arrested are from Fresno, Guthrie said. Each was charged with one count of murder, six counts of attempted murder and seven counts of armed robbery. Their names were withheld because of their ages. One suspect remained at large and additional charges were pending against the four held, police said. Besides the three shotguns, one rifle and a handgun, police seized crack cocaine from one of the youths, Guthrie said. The rampage began after uniformed officers patrolled a drug-infested west Fresno neighborhood called ``the U,'' said Guthrie. Five gang members intended to shoot rivals, but left the area because of the police, Guthrie said. After the fatal shooting downtown, one juvenile left the group, Guthrie said. The other four robbed and shot people along an eight-mile stretch north to near Fresno State University, then headed back downtown, he said. ``This entire scenario was an afterthought,'' Guthrie said. The shooting spree was ``unprecedented in our city,'' he said. ``I can recall nothing of this magnitude ... There very easily could have been half a dozen or more murder victims.'' Police blamed the juveniles for the killing of a 47-year-old man and shootings that left six other men wounded. Two remained hospitalized Monday in serious condition, said Sgt. Dwight Williamson. The others weren't seriously wounded, he said. The victims' names were withheld released. Three other people were injured in shootings Sunday night and investigators were trying to determine whether the same youths were to blame.
AP900420-0005 	X	Beau Rambo, a 1{-year-old cocker spaniel, has a heritage that would make any genealogical name-dropper take notice. His great-great-grandmother was none other than Checkers, the dog immortalized by Richard Nixon. In his 1952 ``Checkers'' speech, the then vice presidential candidate rebutted charges that he illegally accepted gifts from wealthy supporters. He cited the dog, a supporter's gift to his family, as one contribution he would keep. The family pet died in 1964 at age 12. The speech proved an overwhelming success, turning public opinion in favor of the GOP ticket: Dwight Eisenhower, who was running for president, and Nixon. Today, the lineage of the Nixon family pet carries on in Craig Patterson's Beau Rambo, who lives in West Point. Patterson discovered Rambo's lineage when he called the dog's Idaho breeder to obtain the pedigree. ``She said (Rambo) had some show dogs on his dad's side and she rattled off something about Nixon's Checkers,'' he recalled. Nikki Deines, a breeder in Emmett, Idaho, confirmed the lineage reads like this: Checkers Prize Package of Nixon fame begat Otis the Twelfth, who begat Miss Mollie Value, who begat Nikki's Beau Tamara, who begat Rambo.
AP880921-0125 	X	A black high school student says she was told to ``go back to the ghetto'' during a football game, prompting school officials Wednesday to promise to work toward preventing future racial clashes. Shana Cannell, a 14-year-old freshman, said a cheerleader at Pekin led other students in racially harassing blacks at the Sept. 2 game between the Peoria Lions and the Pekin Dragons. ``While I was playing in the (Peoria) band, Pekin High School students taunted my friends and me with racial slurs such as ... `go back to the ghetto,''' the teen-ager wrote in a letter to the Journal Star of Peoria. She added that ``one of the more vocal students was a Pekin cheerleader who was standing in front of her coach'' and referred to her by a common racial epithet. Jack Wilt, Pekin School District superintendent, said he has found no witnesses but has no reason to doubt the girl's story. Wilt said he plans on offering her a written apology. ``I can't pinpoint who made the remarks but I don't doubt they were made,'' Wilt said Wednesday. Ms. Cannell's father, Julian Cannell, the Peoria School District attorney, said an apology ``is not the answer.'' ``My speculation is the teachers and parents in Pekin don't care,'' he said. ``They must educate their children that overt racism will not be tolerated in our society.'' Chic Renner, president of the Pekin school board, said Wednesday that the remarks of a few students do not reflect the attitudes of everyone in Pekin. Wilt said there is a history of racial problems at athletic events involving Pekin and Peoria High, which has 1,200 students and a 39 percent minority enrollment. He noted that less than 1 percent of Pekin High's 2,500-member student body is black and only one or two black families live in Pekin. Renner is concerned the incident is rekindling the longstanding perception of Pekin as a racist community. ``I don't know how long we have to dwell on it,'' he said. ``We recognize the problem and are trying to deal with it and cure it.''
AP900503-0049 	X	The administration of Mayor Kurt Schmoke has reversed itself and approved a parade permit for a white supremacist ``skinhead'' group rather than face a threatened court challenge. Deputy City Solicitor Ambrose Hartman said the city reluctantly approved the permit Monday, despite objections from community leaders, after concluding it could not win should the group sue on the grounds that its right to free speech was being denied. The group, known as BASH, or Baltimore Area Skin Heads, said it wants to protest the arrival of Soviet Jews in the United States and would march within a month. The Baltimore Sun quoted an unidentified member of the group as saying the group selected a predominately white, working-class area of Baltimore called Hampden because it is ``one of the last white neighborhoods around.'' The group wants Marylanders to take a stand against race-mixing and what they say are other threats to white power, he said. Eleven churches, community organizations and other Hampden civic groups asked the city to deny the permit after learning of the planned rally last month. Referring to two wealthier Baltimore neighborhoods, the Rev. David Rimbach, pastor of the Hampden United Methodist Church, said: ``They're not going to parade though Roland Park or Charles Village, they are going to parade through Hampden, because they think it's a place of hate and violence. ``We don't want to be painted with those kind of colors any more,'' he said Wednesday. Skinheads are known for their shaved heads, heavy boots and Nazi insignia. They have been linked to racial and religious crime in more than two dozen states. ``What we resent more than anything is it adds to the reputation for intolerance we've gotten over the years,'' said Edward R. Jeunette Jr., past president of the Hampden Community Council. He said it ``doesn't represent a majority view of the people who live here.''
AP880604-0093 	X	Drug testing of Detroit's 5,000-member police force was ordered stopped, at least temporarily, by a federal judge who said he's not convinced the department has a widespread drug problem. U.S. District Judge Horace Gilmore ordered Friday that the testing be halted until a hearing can be held to determine the merits of the practice. The ruling came after the American Civil Liberties Union filed suit on behalf of 70 city employees seeking to stop the testing, which has been conducted on about 1,000 officers since it began May 26. ``It's ironic that out of the first 1,000 officers tested, the department said none tested positive for drugs,'' said William Werthheimer Jr., an attorney for the ACLU. ``That's not consistent with a departmentwide problem.'' The judge said his decision was based on a federal appeals court ruling last month in a case from Chattanooga, Tenn. The appeals court said that unless there is evidence of a widespread drug problem in a police department, mass testing violates Fourth Amendment's ban on unreasonable searches. Detroit Police Department spokesman Fred Zaharoff said the department would abide by the decision, but declined further comment. The injunction granted by Gilmore prohibits the testing until 5 p.m. Tuesday, by which time the parties expect to hold a hearing on the merits of the tests. The Detroit police department has been rocked recently by suspensions of 14 officers for drug use and reports that an additional 100 officers are under investigation for crack cocaine use or other crack-related crimes. Under Detroit's drug testing program, police officers who test positive for cocaine or heroin would be subject to firing after a four-step retesting process. Officers testing positive for marijuana could remain on the force after a suspension and education program.
AP901023-0150 	X	Iraq said Tuesday that a former oil minister of Iran who was captured by Iraqi forces early in the 1980-88 Iran-Iraq war committed suicide two years later. The official Iraqi News Agency said its information came from an ``official source'' who was commenting on press reports that Iraq was still holding former Cabinet member Mohammad Javad Tondguyan. INA, monitored in Nicosia, did not say exactly when or how he died. The agency said President Turgut Ozal of Turkey, then prime minister, sought to gain Tondguyan's release on March 22, 1986, during a visit to Baghdad, and that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein told him Tondguyan had committed suicide. On Monday, Iran accused Iraq of holding Tondguyan in a ``secret prison'' and demanded his immediate release. Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency said Iran had ``live and documented evidence'' Tondguyan was alive and that Iraq should show good will by releasing him at once. Tondguyan was captured while on a tour of the fronts in October 1980, a month after the Iran-Iraq war broke out. A cease-fire ended hostilities in August 1988. Saddam recently agreed to Iran's terms for a formal peace settlement of their border dispute as he tried to break out of the international isolation that followed his Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait. Saddam subsequently withdrew his troops from sections of Iranian territory occupied during the conflict. The two Persian Gulf neighbors also have exchanged tens of thousands of prisoners of war. The Iraqi agency said Iraq formally informed Iran of Tondguyan's suicide through the International Committee of the Red Cross. It said Iraq also handed over to Iran all papers related to the investigation, a medical report and a death certificate in accordance with provisions of the 1949 Geneva Convention.
AP900618-0130 	X	A Soviet pilot landed a passenger plane on a beach on Turkey's Black Sea coast Monday and asked for political asylum. Officials quoted him as saying he wanted to flee the ``undemocratic regime'' in Moscow. A government announcement said the pilot was alone in the Antonov-2 plane when it landed near Kumcagiz, a village in Kocaeli province. The official Soviet news agency Tass said the 12-seat plane was seized in Izmail, near the Ukrainian port of Odessa. The report offered few details. The Turkish statement identified the pilot as Valeri Yuricevic. Kocaeli Gov. Ihsan Dede said Yuricevic was married and had a child. He said the pilot recently separated from his wife. Tass said the pilot resigned several months ago from his job with an Odessa air crew. Officials quoted Yuricevic as saying during an interrogation that he escaped ``the undemocratic regime'' in his country and wanted to live in Turkey. Dede told The Associated Press that Yuricevic, 29, complained about harsh living conditions in the Soviet Union, where shortages are widespread and economic problems continue. He said the pilot did not elaborate. Dede said Yuricevic's request for political asylum was being examined. State TV showed the plane near the coastline. A village girl interviewed on television said residents watched the plane land. She said the pilot approached her after he got out of the plane and spoke to her in Russian. Another villager said the pilot was shaking and looked nervous. Villagers brought the pilot to the police station, Dede said. The plane, flying at low altitude, made the trip in two hours. Turkey's announcement said the plane was tracked immediately after it entered Turkish airspace and military planes were put on alert. However, the plane was allowed to land safely when authorities determined it posed no threat. There are no airports in the province. A government official, who requested anoynmity, said the Soviets immediately asked Turkey to return the plane and the pilot. Dede said local officials were waiting for a team of technical experts to move the plane, which sunk into the sand on the beach. When a Soviet air force captain defected to this country in a MIG-29 jet a year ago, Turkey allowed the plane to be flown back to the Soviet Union but sent the pilot to the United States upon his request.
AP900323-0243 	X	The dollar was mostly higher in domestic and foreign trading Friday but fell sharply against the yen as investors regained some confidence in the Japanese currency. Gold prices were lower. Analysts said a rise in interest rates in Japan and a recovery on the Tokyo Stock Exchange after a string of steep losses helped support the yen, which itself has fallen sharply in recent weeks. Jack Barbanel, president of First Global Asset Management Inc., said traders believed Japanese yields would go even higher, which would make the yen even more attractive. The dollar fell to 154.30 yen in New York from 155.095 late Thursday. In Tokyo early Friday, the dollar rose 0.24 yen to a closing 155.07 yen, and in London, it was quoted at a sharply lower rate of 153.85 yen. Overseas dealers said the dollar was hit in afternoon dealings by a report, later denied, that Japan was moving to issue dollar-denominated bonds in a bid to add a layer of intervention to help the sagging yen. The dollar also was hit by profit-taking before Friday's talks between Treasury Secretary James Brady and his Japanese counterpart, Ryutaro Hashimoto, in Los Angeles. Barbanel said the dollar's strong showing against other currencies was due partly to higher interest rates in the United States, and also to concerns about tensions between the Soviet Union and Lithuania. The dollar is seen as a safe haven in times of international political strife. Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Thursday's quotes, included: 1.7135 West German marks, up from 1.7028; 1.5200 Swiss francs, up from 1.5120; 5.7720 French francs, up from 5.7415; 1,260.25 Italian lire, up from 1,255.50; and 1.17505 Canadian dollars, down from 1.17575. Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Thursday's prices, included: 1.7100 West German marks, up from 1.7054; 1.5179 Swiss francs, up from 1.5150; 5.7645 French francs, up from 5.7505; 1.9249 Dutch guilders, up from 1.9210; 1,258.50 Italian lire, up from 1,255.50; and 1.1751 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1757. The pound recovered somewhat from its recent slide on Britain's economic woes and political uncertainty. In London, the pound rose to $1.6040 from $1.6015 late Thursday, but it fell in New York to $1.6010 from $1.6040. Gold fell $5.10 a troy ounce on the Commodity Exchange in New York, closing at $388.90. Later, Republic National Bank of New York quoted a bid of $389.10 a troy ounce, down $4.90. Gold fell in London to a late bid price of $386.95 a troy ounce from $393.05 bid late Thursday. In Zurich, the metal fell to a closing bid of $391.50 from $393 late Thursday. Earlier, in Hong Kong, gold rose 13 cents to close at a bid $393.65. Silver fell 4.1 cents to $5.043 a troy ounce on the Commodity Exchange. In London, silver fell to a late bid price of $5.04 a troy ounce, down from Thursday's $5.08.
AP900808-0061 	X	A heart valve manufacturer bowed to the demands of consumer activists and agreed to inform thousands of implant patients of potential defects. Shiley Inc. of Irvine, a subsidiary of New York-based Pfizer Inc., said Tuesday it will identify and notify 21,000 patients in the United States of product defects that could prove dangerous. Its notices will advise patients about the warning signs of mechanical valve failure and what steps to take should the device fail, company officials said. The announcement affects those patients who received the Bjork-Shiley 60-degree ``convexo-concave'' heart valve. The company voluntarily pulled the valves from the U.S. market in 1986 following reports of valve fractures. Roger Sachs, vice president and medical director at Shiley, said the firm was determining how patients will be notified. He said Shiley was negotiating with another company to compile a registry of implant patients. The decision comes after Public Citizen Health Research Group, a Washington, D.C.-based consumer organization, filed a lawsuit against Shiley and Pfizer to force Shiley to warn patients about the defects. A judge dismissed the suit in May after ruling that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration had sole authority to issue such an order. ``If the company does what it says it is going to do, there is no question that some people who otherwise would die will live,'' said Public Citizen's director, Dr. Sidney Wolfe. ``I think they (Shiley) saw the handwriting on the wall and yielded to something they should have done a long time ago,'' he added. Originally, Shiley had cautioned only surgeons about the valve's problems, replying upon them to notify their patients. In March, the company mailed warnings to surgeons, cardiologists, primary physicians and emergency room practitioners. A statement issued Tuesday by Shiley said the decision to notify patients directly came in response to FDA concerns that physicians may not have effectively communicated the product's defects to implant patients. Shiley officials added they will ask the FDA to review the notices it will send to patients. FDA spokeswoman Susan Cruzan said the agency could decide by early next year whether to require valve manufacturers to notify patients directly of any potential product defects.
AP880706-0117 	X	Pentagon officials raised ``the possibility'' that a military identification signal received by the cruiser Vincennes may have been sent by a military jet and not the Iranian commercial airliner shot down by one of the ship's missiles, Rep. Les Aspin said today. But a Navy spokesman, Lt. Brian Cullin, said, ``We do not believe there was another aircraft in the area.'' Aspin, chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, said that possibility was raised Tuesday by Defense Department officials who met behind closed doors with House members to discuss Sunday's attack by the Vincennes, in which all 290 people on the Iranair jetliner died. Pentagon spokesman Dan Howard said Tuesday the Vincennes' sophisticated electronic equipment had picked up transmissions from Iran Air flight 655 on a military frequency, leading the crew of the cruiser to think it was firing at an Iranian F-14 fighter. The Pentagon officials who briefed the House members ``said they were examining a wide range of possibilities about what happened,'' Aspin said today. ``We pressed them on the military transmission angle, the fact that the Vincennes said it was receiving on a military channel'' from the airliner, he said. ``We were told that there were three possibilities. One is that the Airbus had in fact been broadcasting on both civilian and military frequencies; the second is the fact that people on the Vincennes made a mistake in reading the information, and the third is that there was a second plane that was a military plane,'' he said. ``The possibility exists that there was a military plane that was somehow masked'' by the airliner, he said. The Identification Friend or Foe (IFF) system used by the Vincennes as part of the identification process ``is good, but it also has a lot of limitations,'' said Aspin, a Wisconsin Democrat. ``For one thing, it's not very good at determining altitudes,'' Aspin said. He said that if there were a second plane, its existence could be one explanation of the wide divergence between reports about the altitude of the Airbus. The Vincennes thought the Airbus was at about 7,000 feet, but Howard said Tuesday that the USS Sides, another ship in the area, had tracked the jetliner's altitude at above 12,000 feet. The Vincennes efforts to identify the plane were hampered by the lack of an airborne radar system in the vicinity, said Adm. William Crowe, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff who on Sunday acknowledged that downed plane was an airliner. ``There was no air cover,'' Crowe said Sunday. The United States does operate E-2 Hawkeye and Airborne Warning and Control (AWACS) reconnaissance aircraft with sophisticated look-down radar in the region, but they were not aloft at the time of the incident. Crowe was asked on Sunday whether any other Iranian aircraft were in the area, and said ``there was an F-4 up later. Whether it had been up all the time or earlier, we're not able to determine. ... It didn't play a part in this.'' The F-4's and F-14's were among the U.S.-made weapons sold to Iran during the reign of Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi, who was overthrown in 1979.
AP880220-0071 	X	The Soviets have become more open about announcing their space failures, but failed to announce the destruction of a spy satellite last month and gave out sparse details about a rocket failure, space-watcher Jim Oberg said Saturday. The official Tass news agency reported that the upper stage of the Proton rocket booster failed on Wednesday and that on Thursday ``the Sputniks entered dense layers of the atmosphere and ceased their existence.'' According to U.S. Space Command, the largest chunk of debris from the mission re-entered the earth's atmosphere Friday afternoon between Saudi Arabia and Turkey, and a smaller chunk fell earlier near Australia. Besides the failure of the Proton, with three satellites aboard, the Soviets lost another satellite, Cosmos 1,906, on Jan. 31. The imaging satellite was launched on Dec. 26 and was ``blown up to prevent the film and equipment from falling into the hands of western intelligence agencies,'' Oberg said. Since Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev came to power in March 1985, Oberg said, the Soviets ``have certainly released new material. But there remain severe limits. Military stuff is clearly beyond the limit.'' Still, Oberg said, Western technology can detect such events as the Proton failure, and Western news reports can force further disclosures from the Soviets. Penetrating the secretive Soviet space program is nothing new for Oberg, who has published his findings in a new book called ``Uncovering Soviet Disasters: Exploring the Limits of Glasnost.'' Long before Gorbachev's moderate reforms led to greater disclosure of problems in the Soviet Union, Oberg had pieced together hair-raising tales of disasters that for decades went unreported in the state-controlled media. Oberg has ``been working since childhood at this, watching their space program, looking for chinks in their secrecy, and driving through them.'' Soviet secrecy can be dangerous, Oberg wrote in his book. On Oct. 24, 1962, a Soviet space probe exploded into dozens of objects during the Cuban missile crisis, the confrontation that brought the superpowers their closest to nuclear war. Debris from the probe ``appeared without warning on American attack-warning radars in Alaska,'' Oberg wrote. ``The Cuban missile crisis was at its height, and for a few moments the unannounced and unpredicted Soviet space failure looked like the long-feared massive Soviet (Intercontinental Ballistic Missile) attack.'' The debris burned up as it entered the atmosphere. But, Oberg said, the Soviets have never publicly acknowledged the event. Soviet media also have not reported on the most spectacular ``and probably the greatest disaster of the space age,'' the ``Nedelin catastrophe,'' which on about Oct. 24, 1960, killed scores of Soviets including Marshal Mitrofan Nedelin, the commander in chief of the Soviet Strategic Rocket Forces. The accident came three years after the Soviets launched the first satellite, ``Sputnik.'' Operating in the strictest secrecy, the Soviets launched two unmanned spacecraft on a probe to Mars, but both fell back into the atmosphere and burned up because their upper stages failed. A third booster was loaded with fuel, and the order was given to launch. But the main rocket engine did not ignite. ``It just stood there on the launch pad, bathed in searchlights and fuming with clouds of supercold liquid oxygen,'' Oberg wrote. ``Nedelin made a fatal error and committed a gross violation of elementary rocket safety standards,'' Oberg wrote. ``From the launch bunker, where he had prepared to watch the expected success, he ordered a team of engineers to inspect the rocket booster immediately. ...'' ``Since he was an experienced combat commander, he would not send men into peril he himself avoided, so he walked out to the base of the rocket while the inspection was being made.'' Although the main rocket failed to ignite, the uppermost stage continued to operate as though it were en route to Mars, and at the time when it would have separated from the booster, fired its own rockets. ``A million pounds of kerosene and liquid oxygen flared up in a pyre which must have been visible for hundreds of miles,'' Oberg wrote. The Soviet press carried an official obituary of Nedelin several days later, saying that he had ``died tragically in the line of duty'' in a plane crash. Not a word has appeared since then in the official press, although writings smuggled out of Russia or published by emgres have described the incident, and Oberg pieced together the evidence.
AP900403-0215 	X	The original stars of the London production of Andrew Lloyd Webber's new musical ``Aspects of Love'' will recreate their roles in the Broadway production opening April 8 at the Broadhurst Theater. The two American actresses, Ann Crumb and Kathleen Rowe McAllen, and two British actors, Michael Ball and Kevin Colson, are part of an ongoing exchange between American and British Actors' Equity. Directed by Trevor Nunn, ``Aspects of Love'' originally opened in London's West End on April 17, 1989, where it continues to play to capacity houses. Set in France in the 1950s and based on David Garnett's novel, ``Aspects of Love'' traces the course, over 18 years, of a romance between a young English boy and a penniless French actress, through an affair that involves all those whose lives it touches.
AP901031-0146 	X	National Republican campaign committees have suffered multimillion-dollar drops in receipts and spending compared to the last non-presidential election campaign, a federal agency said Wednesday. The GOP committees still have spent far more this time around than their Democratic counterparts, which did not experience a decline in campaign fund-rasising, the Federal Election Commission said. As of Oct. 17, the FEC said, the Republican national, senatorial and congressional committees had received $30 million less and spent $26 million less than in the same period during the 1985-86 cycle. At the same time, the level of financial activity at the Democratic committees remained on a par with the previous off-year campaign cycle. Republican Party strategists have said GOP fund-raising efforts were hurt by President Bush's change of heart on taxes. Bush abandoned his no-new-taxes campaign pledge this fall and agreed to a package of spending cuts and new taxes to help reduce the federal deficit. Nevertheless, the GOP managed to outspend the Democrats this year by more than $118 million, according to the FEC. The three GOP committees raised and spent $159 million from Jan. 1, 1989, to Oct. 17, 1990. The three Democratic committees raised $37 million and spent $40 million in the same period. The Republicans contributed nearly twice as much as the Democrats directly to candidates - $1.8 million compared to just over $900,000, the FEC said. Coordinated expenditures, or indirect aid to candidates, came to $7.4 million for the GOP and $5.8 million for the Democrats. The GOP also has transferred much more money to state party committees than the Democrats - $3.7 million compared to $1.6 million. In addition, the national Republican Party operates two joint fund-raising committees that have distributed $1.9 million to 49 Senate candidates, the FEC said. Democrats have filed a complaint alleging that the committees - the Republican Senatorial Inner Circle 1990 and 1990-91 - are illegally circumventing campaign spending limits.
AP881017-0216 	X	Today is Wednesday, Oct. 26, the 300th day of 1988. There are 66 days left in the year. Today's highlight in history: In 1881, the Gunfight at the O-K Corral occurred in Tombstone, Ariz., as Wyatt Earp, his two brothers and ``Doc'' Holliday shot it out with Ike Clanton's gang. Three members of Clanton's gang were killed; Earp's brothers were wounded. On this date: In 1774, the First Continental Congress adjourned in Philadelphia. In 1825, the Erie Canal opened, connecting the waters of Lake Erie and the Hudson River. In 1942, the U.S. ship Hornet was sunk in the Battle of Santa Cruz Islands during World War II. In 1949, President Harry S. Truman signed a measure raising the minimum wage from 40 to 75 cents an hour. In 1957, the Soviet Union announced that its defense minister, Marshal Georgi Zhukov, had been relieved of his duties. In 1958, Pan American Airways flew its first Boeing 707 jetliner from New York to Paris. The trip took eight hours, 41 minutes. In 1967, the Shah of Iran crowned himself and his queen after 26 years on the Peacock Throne. In 1972, national security adviser Henry Kissinger declared ``Peace is at hand'' in Vietnam. In 1975, Anwar Sadat became the first Egyptian president to pay an official visit to the United States as he arrived to seek economic and military aid from Washington. In 1977, the experimental space shuttle Enterprise glided to a bumpy but successful landing at Edwards Air Force Base in California in a test witnessed by Britain's Prince Charles. In 1979, South Korean president Park Chung-hee was shot to death by the head of the Korean Central Intelligence Agency, Kim Jae-kyu. In 1984, ``Baby Fae,'' a newborn with a severe heart defect, was given the heart of a baboon in an experiment transplant in Loma Linda, California. Baby Fae lived 21 days with the animal's heart. Ten years ago: President Jimmy Carter told a Democratic Party rally in Miami that he intended to sign an $18.7 billion tax cut measure, despite previous threats to veto it. Five years ago: Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger reported that the U.S.-led military incursion into Grenada was progressing ``extremely well,'' and said six U.S. servicemen had been killed since the invasion began the day before. One year ago: In Miami, an investor who had suffered heavy stock market losses shot and killed a brokerage manager and wounded his personal broker, then turned the gun on himself. Today's birthdays: The former archbishop of Philadelphia, Cardinal John Krol, is 78. French President Francois Mitterrand is 72. Actor Bob Hoskins is 46. Actress Jaclyn Smith is 41. Thought for today: ``You have not done enough, you have never done enough, so long as it is still possible that you have something to contribute.'' _ Dag Hammarskjold, U.N. Secretary-General (1905-1961).
AP880411-0074 	X	Wood storks have come home to roost in southern Florida, but but naturalists are worried that the endangered birds won't have a chance to rear their young before the rainy season. Summer deluges at the storks' two major ancestral breeding grounds would drench nestlings and disperse the fish the birds rely on for food, they explained. Last week, 620 pairs of wood storks were nesting at Corkscrew Swamp Sanctuary, a National Audubon Society refuge about 20 miles north of Naples that was once the primary stork-nesting area in North America. Another 75 pairs have taken up residence at Everglades National Park's Cuthbert Island. The two sites were believed to have been all but abandoned by North America's sole species of stork, a giant white bird with an iron-black head. ``We are ecstatic to be able to report these numbers,'' said Paul Hinchcliff, chief naturalist at Corkscrew. ``Whether or not there's enough time before the start of the rainy season to fledge enough young remains to be seen.'' Almost all previous attempts to nest so late in the year have ended disastrously, said John Ogden, who heads a wood stork study team at Everglades National Park. If they are unable to feed offspring, parent birds will abandon the colony, leaving hundreds of crying young birds to starve. Wood storks have not produced offspring in significant numbers at Corkscrew since 1984-85, when 353 pairs of birds successfully raised 530 young. Fifty years ago, it was common to see 6,000 to 8,000 pairs of storks nesting in the gray-boughed cypress trees. Since the early 1960s, however, storks have been spurning Corkscrew in favor of central and northern Florida and other Southern states. Between 1960 and 1980, the wood stork nesting population at Corkscrew dropped by 75 percent. The renewed Corkscrew colony represents almost 30 percent of the total U.S. stork population, estimated at 4,000. Historically, storks came to Corkscrew by the tens of thousands to nest in early winter, leaving plenty of time to rear offspring before the onset of rain. But human activity disrupted the annual cycle of high-water summers and low-water winters in Florida's wetlands. Much of the area that provided shallow feeding waters for wood storks during the early winter has been drained for farming or sudivisions. The birds have been forced to wait until late winter or spring for the deeper waters of the interior Everglades to drop low enough for them to efficiently feed. As result, nesting is delayed, and this year's young won't be ready to leave their nests until about mid-July, Ogden said.
AP880627-0173 	X	Defense Secretary Frank C. Carlucci said Monday he will travel to Moscow in early August for his third meeting with Soviet Defense Minister Dmitri Yazov, and the second-ranking Soviet defense official will tour the United States in July. The exchange of visits is aimed at reducing military tension between the superpowers as part of a general widening and improvement in the U.S.-Soviet dialogue. In the first business session between the Soviet and U.S. defense secretaries, Carlucci and Yazov met in Bern, Switzerland, last March and for a second time during the Moscow summit May 31-June 2. The ``dialogue is not valuable for its own sake, but only as a means to enhance our security,'' Carlucci said in a speech at the National Press Club. ``Our discussions in Bern and last month in Moscow were candid and, I think precisely because of that, constructive.'' ``We have gained a great deal from having an opportunity to air our differences, and to explore ways that we might improve our relations,'' he said. ``As in our earlier meetings, our agenda will include exploring ways to avoid dangerous military incidents, and to expand military-to-military contacts.'' The Soviet first deputy defense minister, Marshal Sergei F. Akhromeyev, will make a July 5-11 visit to the United States at the invitation of Adm. William Crowe, chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staffs, the Pentagon and Soviet news agency Tass announced. Akhromeyev was in Washington last December for the summit, but the upcoming trip, ``will be his first visit outside the nation's capital,'' the Pentagon announcement said. Akhromeyev, the Soviet chief of staff, ``will tour military units from all four military services and will travel to Virginia, North Carolina, Texas, Oklahoma, South Dakota and New York during his visit,'' it said. Crowe and Akhromeyev will have joint news conferences on July 6 and July 11, and on July 11, the Soviet marshal will address a meeting of the Council on Foreign Relations in New York City. Akhromeyev will not be allowed to view any classified training or equipment, the Pentagon said, but he will visit Camp Lejeune, N.C.; the aircraft carrier USS Theodore Roosevelt; Fort Hood, Texas; and Ellsworth Air Force Base, S.D. The Soviet defense official will be allowed to view a new B-1B bomber, but will not be allowed to fly in one, the Pentagon added. In his speech, Carlucci said he was skeptical of the reform rhetoric of Kremlin leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev and of Soviet claims that ``they are shifting to a purely defensive military posture.'' ``For my part, I have indicated that the United States would welcome such a shift, but that in spite of Soviet claims, we see no change in the Soviet force structure and no reduction in resources devoted to the Soviet military, which continues to absorb between 15 and 17 percent of the Soviet'' gross national product, he said. ``Now is not the time to let down our guard,'' he said. ``There is every reason to believe that the Soviets see in our technology a way to derive not only economic but military advantage.'' ``If the end result of reform is a Soviet Union that is less expansionist, that reduces the resources it now devotes to the military, that delivers on its promises to respect fundamental freedoms and human rights, that is more open to dialogue with the West, then change will have been for the better,'' Carlucci said. ``On the other hand, if the end product of Soviet restructuring is nothing more than the development, perhaps even with Western assistance, of a stronger Soviet military machine, then we in the West will face a far more dangerous threat than we do at present,'' he said. An aide to Carlucci said that the exact dates and interinary of the trip to Moscow would not be announced until next month.
AP880622-0301 	X	Rain answered some prayers in the parched Midwest, where neighbors informed on water wasters by the hundreds, but as the nation buckled under record heat Eastern farmers began worrying that drought conditions were heading their way. More record high temperatures today were expected to burn lingering moisture from drought-choked soil in the nation's farm belt. Temperatures topped the 100-degree mark in 23 states Tuesday, the first day of summer, and set 67 records. However, ``it looks like things will be not quite as hot as they were the last couple days,'' said Hugh Crowther of the National Weather Service in Kansas City, Mo. Meteorologists forecast no major rainfall in the next few days, although widely scattered showers and thunderstorms dampened the central Plains and Great Lakes region this morning, while strong thunderstorms lashed parts of Wisconsin and Michigan. The heat and lack of rain also continued to shrink water levels on rivers, staunching traffic on parts of the Mississippi and Ohio as barges ran aground or became snagged in bottlenecks. ``I can't keep the (Mississippi) river open,'' said Cmdr. Michael Donohoe with the Coast Guard near Memphis, Tenn., where officials expect a towboat traffic jam of up to 1,800 barges. ``Mother Nature is going to make that decision for us.'' In an interview today on ABC-TV's ``Good Morning America,'' Donohoe said the Army Corps of Engineers began dredging the river Tuesday night, and ``we hope to have the channel re-opened by Friday at noon.'' Tuesday, the Army Corps of Engineers managed to free a 26-barge tow that ran aground near Rosedale, Miss., reopening 730 miles of the Mississippi downstream from Memphis to the Gulf of Mexico. Heavy rain fell Tuesday on part of the drought-ravaged northern Plains, but it was scarcely enough to quench dusty pastures. Lightning ignited dry timber and grass in northwestern South Dakota, where firefighters were trying to control two fires that burned a total 6,500 acres. At the Interagency Fire Center in Boise, Idaho, Jack Wilson, director of the Bureau of Land Management, told ``Good Morning America'' he was concerned about the coming forest fire season because of the drought and expected ``a considerable number'' of forests to be closed as the season progresses. Regis Krebs, a farmer from Beckemeyer, Ill., near St. Louis, discovered the fire risk when a spark from his combine set part of his wheat field ablaze. ``He lost a couple acres of wheat in about 10 minutes,'' said Fire Chief Vincent Pollman. ``Everything is bone dry and it went up quickly.'' On the Chicago Board of Trade, drought worries Tuesday drove corn futures prices up to their daily limit for the sixth straight day. Soybean futures also rose sharply while wheat futures retreated. Commodities analysts said the weather service's latest six-to-10 day forecast for hot, dry weather in the Midwest threatened further damage to corn, oat and soybean crops. ``With the corn crop, each week that goes by without rain means another 10 percent is lost,'' said Joel Karlin, an analyst with Research Department Inc. in Chicago. Some estimate anywhere from 10 percent to 30 percent of the U.S. corn crop already has been ruined. Marion Hartman, director of the Ohio Corn Growers Board, said today on the ABC-TV program, ``I don't want to call this a disaster, but it's approaching a disaster. Let's say it's getting critical.'' Hay was so scarce that a hay hot line was started in Dayton, Ohio, for farmers seeking fodder from as far away as Kansas. For the most part those with livestock face the choice of feeding hay stored for the winter, buying feed at higher prices or selling their herds in a falling market. ``I see tears. I see anger,'' said Laura Koenig of Stratford, Wis., who runs a program to help farmers deal with stress. ``I see very tired men, women giving up and walking away, children saying, `I don't want to go in the barn.''' ``There's no hay, no prospect of getting any,'' said O.H. Campbell, 71, of Henderson, Ky. ``I cut about 50 bales. I'm going to use that to feed this summer and then I'm going to sell the herd off.'' Many utilities hit record peak loads Tuesday and asked customers to cut back on electricity. Water use restrictions were widespread, prompting many residents of Oakland County, Mich., to inform on neighbors who violate them, officials said. ``The people have begun to realize the severity of this,'' said Al Beanblossom, assistant manager for the Waterford Township Water and Sewer Department. ``That's why I think people are turning in their neighbors.'' ``We laugh about it,'' Beanblossom said. ``We say, `Here comes another squealer.''' There was little laughter in the East, however, where signs of drought began appearing. Pennsylvania authorities on Tuesday warned the next two weeks are critical. ``Things are drying out pretty quickly out there,'' said Gene Schenck, spokesman for the state Agriculture Department. ``The hot sun and the breeze take the moisture right out of the soil.'' A weekly state survey of 225 farmers and county extension agents showed 80 percent reported their soil was short of moisture last week, Schenck said.
AP901010-0124 	X	A police sergeant on Wednesday began the somber roll call of the 270 people who died in the terrorist bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Scotland. In a silent courtroom virtually empty of spectators, Sgt. David Johnston began listing in alphabetical order the fate of each victim and where their bodies were found as documented by investigators and pathologists. All 259 people aboard the Boeing 747 died when it exploded over the nearby town of Lockerbie on Dec. 21, 1988. Eleven people in that Scottish town were also killed in the crash. Johnston, of Strathclyde police, told the first public hearing into the crash that he arrived in Lockerbie on Christmas Day to work with a unit collating information on the dead. The first name on his roll call was John Michael Gerard Ahearn, 26, a government bonds broker who lived in Rockville Center, N.Y. In a process lasting six minutes, Johnston told the court how the young American had been sitting in seat 30C in the economy class area. His body was found the day after the crash on the Lockerbie golf course. A postmortem exam put the cause of death as multiple injuries. Johnston said Ahearn was identified by dental records. The sergeant then continued with the list. The roll call is expected to take several days. Earlier, Johnston told how 17 victims, 10 passengers and seven Lockerbie residents, were officially registered as ``missing presumed dead.'' Most of the missing passengers were sitting in the fuel-laden wing section that crashed in a fireball in the Sherwood Crescent section of town, damaging or destroying about 20 homes. The missing local residents were from those homes. Several dozen bags of unidentified human remains and two bodies that could not be identified were cremated, police said. Johnston said for each casualty, a ``victim pack'' was compiled, listing all documentary material relating to their death. The officer also produced maps showing the location of each body and described how the victims were identified by several means, mainly dental records and fingerprints. Some were identified by distinctive features like tattoos. Two victims were identified by next of kin who were members of the medical profession. The officer described how police obtained proof that those missing had joined the doomed flight, in some cases recovering personal documents like driving licenses from the debris. The inquiry is focusing on the causes of death and airport security, but not criminal responsibility. Scottish police say they are investigating several radical Palestinian groups and Fraser has said he believes the bombers will be caught.
AP901206-0115 	X	Pope John Paul II on Thursday voiced support for a plan to combat rising anti-Semitism in Eastern Europe, but Vatican officials declined appeals by a Jewish delegation to recognize Israel. A Jewish leader, Seymour Reich, said two days of talks between the Jewish delegation and the Vatican marked ``the beginning of a new chapter'' in the Catholic-Jewish relationship. But he said delegates of the International Jewish Committee on Interreligious Consultations were ``somewhat disappointed'' the pope did not go further in his comments. The Vatican's new foreign minister, Monsignor Jean-Louis Tauran, cited the Vatican's traditional reasons for not recognizing Israel, including unsettled borders, the status of Jerusalem and the Palestinians' lack of a homeland. The pope hailed progress in relations between Jews and Catholics in his speech to the 30-member Jewish delegation and top Vatican officials. In particular, he praised a September plan drawn up by Jews and Catholics in Prague, Czechoslovakia, for fighting anti-Semitism in Eastern Europe. The six-point plan included calls for setting up courses for priests to counter anti-Jewish sentiment, and omiting religiously divisive material from textbooks. The Prague meeting also branded anti-Semitism a sin. Jewish leaders have expressed concern about an upsurge of anti-Semitism in the former Communist countries of Eastern Europe, including the pope's native Poland. The pope praised the Prague meeting for coming ``to conclusions that are of great importance for the continuation of our dialogue and cooperation. It is my hope that these may be widely recognized and that the recommendations then formulated will be implemented wherever human and religious rights are violated.'' Besides the pope's endorsement for the plan to combat anti-Semitism, the Jewish delegation had sought the Vatican's formal recognition of Israel. But Reich, of Great Neck, N.Y., said they saw no change in the Vatican position on the Jewish State. Reich said the Jewish delegates told Vatican officials, ``there can be no full normalization of relations between the Catholic and Jewish communities until the Vatican has full normalization of relations with the Jewish state.'' Nevertheless, delegates said the one-hour papal meeting was warm. Lisa Palmieri-Billig of the Anti-Defamation League, quoted the pope as reiterating his wish to visit the Holy Land. ``I hope one day to be able to visit the holy sites, beginning with those of Abraham'' in Jerusalem, he said, according to Palmieri-Billig. ``That would be our joy,'' replied Rabbi David Rosen, according to Palmieri-Billig. Rosen is a representative of the Anti-Defamation League in Jerusalem. The Catholic-Jewish meetings were held to mark the 25th anniversary of Nostra Aetate, adopted during the Second Vatican Council. The document, considered a turning point in Catholic-Jewish relations, withdrew the accusation that the Jews were responsible for killing Christ.
AP901203-0022 	X	Church bells peal and a man with a megaphone mimics a crowing rooster as the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide rides into town on horseback to be greeted by thousands of adoring supporters. The fiery leftist priest, revered by the masses as a prophet, is taking his remarkable quest for the presidency across Haiti in a campaign imbued with messianic symbolism and patriotic fervor. He calls the campaign Operation ``Lavales,'' or Torrent, a biblical flood to cleanse Haiti of corruption and tyranny; its emblem is the fighting cock, representing Haiti's coming sunrise. ``With Aristide, Lord, there will be no dishonesty,'' the people chant as the slight, bespectacled cleric nicknamed ``Titid'' appears in their midst. Aristide, 37, has survived at least three assassination attempts and was expelled from his Roman Catholic order in 1988 for preaching revolution. He is widely regarded as the frontrunner among 11 candidates in the Dec. 16 election. Supporters say the charismatic priest offers the best hope of giving the impoverished Caribbean nation not only the first democratically elected president in its turbulent 186-year history, but the stability of a government with huge popular support. Critics accuse Aristide of demagoguery and say his a presidency based on emotional mass appeal would pose the threat of a theocratic dictatorship. That appeal has been evident on campaign stops across the country, from the slums of Port-au-Prince, the capital, to the northern city of Cap-Haitien, where an estimated 60,000 people took part in what was probably the biggest demonstration in the city's history. In Jacmel, a crumbling port on the southern coast, perhaps 5,000 people, including hundreds of students in brown and blue school uniforms, poured into the town square for a recent Aristide rally. Dismounting a horse he rode from the outskirts of the city, Aristide plunged into one of his trademark question-response orations in which the distinctions between national pride and Christian love are blurred. Aristide: ``Young people, you know what it is to be lovesick?'' Crowd: ``Yes!'' Aristide: ``Are you in love with Haiti?'' Crowd: ``Yes!'' All sing the lilting ``Haiti Cherie,'' or ``Darling Haiti,'' which is to Haitians what ``America the Beautiful'' is to Americans. Then Aristide: ``We are going to do away with injustice - totally.'' Together: ``Totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally.'' Aristide unexpectedly entered the presidential race in mid-October after Roger Lafontant, reputed former head of the Duvalier dictatorship's infamous Tonton Macoute militia, declared his candidacy. Lafontant was later disqualified on a technicality. Although no opinion polls have been published, the consensus among political observers is that Aristide commands much wider support than any of Haiti's veteran politicians. ``Aristide is the figurehead of a messianic movement, the incarnation of a collective dream,'' says Laennec Hurbon, a specialist on religious movements in the Caribbean. ``His responsibility to his following is not the same as that of a politician to his constituency.'' Aristide gained a nationwide following largely from radio broadcasts of his electrifying sermons in which he railed against successive military regimes that have ruled Haiti since the February 1986, when Jean-Claude ``Baby Doc'' Duvalier was driven into exile. He is an adherent of liberation theology, which promotes political and social awareness among the poor. In September 1988, thugs armed with guns, machetes and spikes burst into Aristide's St. Jean Bosco Church during Mass, killing at least 12 parishioners and wounding 70. Three months later, Aristide, was expelled from the conservative Salesian Order for refusing to tone down his rhetoric. The only other presidential candidate whose appeal approaches Aristide's is the moderate Louis Dejoie Jr., who drew thousands of supporters on a recent campaign swing of the southern peninsula. Marc Bazin, a former World Bank official frequently mentioned as a favorite of the U.S. Embassy, which denies any preference, is also seen as running strongly. Bazin's National Alliance for Democracy andPProgress, the country's best-funded political machine, is expected to dominate Parliament after the election. If Bazin fails to win the presidency, he could still become prime minister since the president must chose a prime minister from among the majority party. Under Haiti's constitution, the president is head of state but the prime minister runs the government. Aristide has said he would ``embrace'' the next prime minister, but many Haitians see the potential for conflict. Voter registration has reached 3.3 million, or 92 percent of the electorate, according to election officials - a phenomenon largely attributed to Aristide's candidacy.
AP900706-0009 	X	Five young adults exploring a storm drain were found alive after being washed away by runoff from a thunderstorm Thursday night, authorities said. The five, who were among eight people 18 to 25 years old who were exploring the drain, were located about 350 yards inside the drain about 11:30 p.m., said Fire Department spokesman Brad Stewart. ``They're all alive,'' Stewart said. One of the eight, John Shaffer of Charleston, said he and two friends were able to escape the drain. ``We got washed down the tube,'' said Shaffer, 21. ``We got a quarter of the way down and the water got so high. We tried to get out and we got washed out. ``We were just exploring there,'' he said. ``It wasn't raining when we went in, but then the water came in.'' The storm dumped up to 1{ inches of rain in a two-hour period in the area, the National Weather Service said.
AP881211-0003 	X	Gov. Robert D. Orr said he has narrowed his list of candidates for Vice President-elect Dan Quayle's U.S. Senate seat to eight finalists. Orr said Friday that expects to name his selection sometime this week. A final background check of the finalists was being conducted over the weekend. The Indianapolis Star, in its Sunday editions, said Orr confirmed a list finalists that the paper had learned from sources. The eight, all Republicans, are U.S. Reps. Dan Coats and Dan Burton; former Indiana Secretary of State Edwin J. Simcox; state House Speaker Paul S. Mannweiler of Indianapolis; state Rep. Patrick J. Kiely of Anderson, chairman of the state House Ways and Means Committee; Lt. Gov. John M. Mutz; Indianapolis Mayor William H. Hudnut; and Marion County Prosecutor Stephen Goldsmith, the newspaper said. Orr told the newspaper Friday he had reduced a group of 50 candidates for the Senate seat down to 20 to 25 names and then down to the eight finalists. He said that the finalists who are from the Indianapolis area, such as Hudnut and Goldsmith, have a slight disadvantage compared with the other candidates because Indiana's other senator, Richard Lugar, is from there.
AP900706-0091 	X	A bride who got onto her husband's Harley Davidson while still wearing her wedding gown spent the night in a hospital after it got caught in the motorcycle's back wheel. Denise Hudson and her husband, Lee, planned to ride to Raleigh, N.C., for a Grateful Dead concert after getting married July Fourth at a park. But the train of Mrs. Hudson's full-length gown got caught and dragged her under the bike. Mrs. Hudson, 28, suffered a broken pelvis and a concussion. ``She's skinned and sore. It could have been worse,'' said Hudson, 30, who received minor cuts and bruises. Paramedics had to cut the cream-colored gown to pieces to free her. Mrs. Hudson will have to spend the next few days in Grand Strand General Hospital, and the next few weeks recovering from her injuries. ``We can always have another honeymoon,'' her husband said.
AP880220-0086 	X	Relief services for about 260,000 Palestinian refugees in Lebanon will be cut to the minimum because of the kidnapping of two Scandinavian employees of the U.N. Relief and Works Agency, the agency said Saturday. ``There will be noticeable changes in UNRWA services and activities because of security problems and the lack of freedom of movement,'' said agency spokesman Niall Kiely. ``We feel agency staff, be they foreign nationals or locals, are under threat to their physical safety.'' UNRWA employees Jan Stening, 44 of Sweden, and William Jorgensen, 58, of Norway, were kidnapped Feb. 5. UNRWA said Palestinians, acting independently of guerrilla factions, kidnapped the men for personal motives. Kiely said only four of the 14 international staff assigned to Lebanon remained in west Beirut and ``they are very heavily involved in the search for Stening and Jorgensen.'' He said he was ``reasonably hopeful'' that the Scandinavians would be released because ``there are no real setbacks'' in negotiations. He did not elaborate. Kiely said UNRWA has canceled a repair program for Beirut's war-ravaged Chatilla and Bourj el-Barajneh Palestinian refugee camps ``because it can't be supervised.'' About 2,200 local relief workers serve with UNRWA at field centers in Lebanon. Kiely said another impact of the kidnappings in south Lebanon was that all UNRWA transports between Beirut and the southern port cities of Sidon and Tyre have been stopped both ways. He said agency operations such as schools ``have a certain momentum, so for the moment many services will continue to run as before.''
AP900906-0058 	X	The dollar sank in European trading this morning as traders concentrated on U.S. economic weaknesses. Gold was higher. The dollar closed in Tokyo at 141.65 yen, down 0.65 yen from its close Wednesday. That was the lowest closing rate since Oct. 25, 1989. Later in London, the dollar was quoted at 141.09 yen. Other dollar rates at midmorning compared with late Wednesday: _1.5557 German marks, down from 1.5630 _1.2968 Swiss francs, up from 1.2963 _5.2140 French francs, down from 5.2375 _1.7540 Dutch guilders, down from 1.7607 _1,160.50 Italian lire, down from 1,166.00 _1.1500 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1532 In London, the British pound was quoted at $1.9045, compared with $1.8990 late Wednesday. A trader in Milan, Italy, said the market expected bad news for the U.S. economy when employment figures are released Friday. London's major bullion dealers fixed a recommended gold price of $388.25 at midmorning, up from $387.75 Wednesday. In Zurich, the bid price was $388.00, from $385.75 late Wednesday. Gold in Hong Kong rose $3.57 an ounce today, to close at $387.59. Silver traded in London at a bid price of $4.84 a troy ounce, up from Wednesday's $4.78.
AP900801-0249 	X	The stock market recorded some spotty losses today as investors studied new signs of sluggishness in business activity. The Commerce Department reported that the index of leading economic indicators was unchanged in June, rather than posting the small increase many analysts had been expecting. Separately, a monthly report from the National Association of Purchasing Management showed a marked dropoff in its measure of activity in the manufacturing sector of the economy. Those developments reinforced expectations in the financial world that business growth was likely to remain meager at best in the near future. In that environment, hopes have flagged on Wall Street for any impending improvement in corporate earnings. But at the same time, interest rates have moved lower of late. In today's credit market activity, prices of long-term government bonds rose about $5 for each $1,000 in face value, lowering their yields to the 8.35 percent-8.37 percent range.
AP901119-0252 	X	CBS Inc. said Monday it expects to post a loss in the fourth quarter because of a weak advertising market and unexpectedly large losses on its television broadcasts of major league baseball. The company also said it expects lower earnings from continuing operations for all of 1991 compared with this year. The glum forecast comes as CBS reportedly planned a meeting with its affiliates board to propose a reduction in the estimated $160 million the network pays about 200 affiliated stations for carrying its shows. Media analysts said they expected CBS would post a loss for the last three months of 1990 and an earnings decline in 1991. Analyst Jeff Russell of Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co. said CBS would lose about $35 million in the quarter and earnings will fall to about $205 million in 1991 from about $230 million in 1990. In reaction to the news, CBS shares dropped $4 to close at $159.75 in trading of New York Stock Exchange issues. CBS isn't the only media company suffering because of a slowdown this quarter in national ad spending growth. Capital Cities-ABC Inc., which operates the ABC Television Network, said last month as it reported a decline in profit in the third quarter that it expected a decline in earnings for the fourth quarter as well. Like CBS, Capital Cities-ABC has been hurt by losses on major league baseball coverage at its 80 percent-owned ESPN cable TV network. The third major network, NBC, is owned by General Electric Co. which does not report separately on its broadcasting subsidiary's performance. CBS's unspecified loss projected for the fourth quarter would be its first excluding special items since the company lost $20 million on continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 1986, spokesman Kewith Fawcett said. CBS earned $59.5 million, or $2.31 a share, in the fourth quarter of 1989. This was the first year of CBS's four-year baseball contract which allows it to carry several regular season games along with the league championship series, World Series and All-Star game. While the network reportedly expected to lose about $35 million in the first year of the $1.06 billion contract, the losses are said to have run much higher. CBS Sports President Neal Pilson has said only that the loss on baseball was under $100 million. On Monday, CBS said losses on baseball were ``higher than anticipated'' as the result of soft demand in the ad marketplace for time on sports programs and because the World Series and one of the two league championships were settled in four games instead of the maximum seven. The short series meant CBS had fewer nights of baseball on which to sell advertising. Games later in a series also tend to draw bigger audiences, making them more valuable to advertisers. CBS said its TV network would have had a loss for the fourth quarter even without baseball, because of the soft ad marketplace. It said the marketplace weakness has dampened demand for network, local TV and radio advertising, and said network ad prices have been particulartly soft for National Football League and primetime broadcasts, where CBS ratings have improved. In projecting a decline in earnings from continuing operations in 1991 compared with 1990, CBS cited the worsening economic climate for advertising and rising costs for entertainment programs and sports rights. Another reason is that the 1990 figures include profits on the coverage of the NFL Super Bowl and the National Basketball Association playoffs and championship that the network will not have rights to in 1991. ``As a result, the CBS Television Network is currently expected to show an operating loss in 1991,'' the statement said. Russell said his firm expects the CBS TV Network will post a profit of about $10 million for 1990 and lose about $35 million next year.
AP880328-0018 	X	The Nikkei Stock Average closed at 25,622.71 points, up 301.99 points, on the Tokyo Stock Exchange on Monday.
AP901003-0106 	X	Thousands of Egyptians are traveling to Kuwait and Iraq to bring home relatives or retrieve belongings ranging from birth certificates to mink coats. Others hope to resume old jobs or win positions vacated in the exodus of workers who fled after Iraq invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2. Before they go, the Egyptians must obtain permits from Iraq's consulate in Cairo. The papers, called ``facilitating documents'' rather than visas, allow entrance to Iraq and its ``governorate of Kuwait.'' Egypt has led Arab opposition to the Iraqi conquest, and strongly rejects Baghdad's annexation of its small neighbor. But Cairo has not prevented Egyptians from going to Iraq or Kuwait. ``Some of these people are very poor,'' said an official of the Interior Ministry, which keeps track of the reverse exodus by issuing permits to Egyptians who work outside the country. ``They have no alternative but to work there. They don't care if there's a war or not. We can't stop them.'' On Wednesday, applicants milled about outside the Iraqi Consulate, awaiting their documents. ``I want to see if my school is still open,'' said Mahmoud, a mathmetics teacher at a school in Kuwait who gave only his first name. He seemed in a quandary about the journey, wondering aloud whether he should take his wife. Men waiting with him strongly advised that she stay in Egypt. On Aug. 2, about 1.5 million Egyptians worked in the two Persian Gulf states. At least 400,000 fled in the days that followed, thronging refugee camps in Jordan to await ferries to Egypt. Western and Arab countries helped by sending aircraft and other aid. But as weeks passed, returnees began feeling secure enough to worry about possessions or jobs left behind. An Egyptian in Alexandria told of a friend who had worked in Kuwait for many years but fled the advancing Iraqis, leaving his car and other belongings. He went back last month and recently returned home in the car. It was stuffed with electric appliances, silverware, china and his wife's mink coat. Interior Minister Abdel-Halim Moussa said 5,062 Egyptians left for Iraq and Kuwait through mid-September. ``Some believe they can find jobs, because many Egyptian workers left for home,'' he said in an interview published Wednesday in Al-Ahaly, a weekly newspaper. ``Others leave to bring back their belongings and documents.'' Figures at the Iraqi Consulate were far below Moussa's, and a consular officer could not explain the discrepancy. He said the office issued only about 800 permits through mid-September, with hundreds more being processed. He said most were for Egyptians returning to jobs in Kuwait. Of about 15 men and three women outside the Iraqi Consulate, all but one said they planned to bring back family members or possessions. Fearing Iraqi harassment, all asked not be identified or allowed use only of first names. ``I love Kuwait. It's like my second home,'' said a man who worked there as an expert with the Kuwait navy. ``There's no way I'm going to work there for those people (the Iraqis). I'd fight them if I could.'' Ahmed, a burly man in dark glasses, said he was returning to Kuwait for his wife and three children. They were stranded by the invasion while Ahmed was vacationing in Cairo. Closely examining an Iraqi permit handed to a teacher, Ahmed told him: ``You'd better be careful. I hear the Iraqis are keeping the teachers and not letting them leave.'' Mahmoud, one of three teachers outside the consultate Wednesday, was the only one considering working in occupied Kuwait. Ahmed and two others attempted to dissuade him. ``The atmosphere in Kuwait is terrible now, destruction and terror,'' Ahmed said. ``The Iraqis hate us.''
AP900531-0237 	X	Chrysler Corp. Vice Chairman Gerald Greenwald's resignation, announced at a time when the automaker is scaling back and struggling to regain lost market share, is troubling to the company and investors alike, analysts say. Greenwald, the apparent successor to Chairman Lee Iacocca, said Wednesday he was resigning to head United Air Lines employees' $4.38 billion proposal to buy the carrier. He became the third top Chrysler executive to quit this month. Iacocca, 65, whose contract expires at the end of 1991, said when Greenwald was named vice chairman in November 1988 that the chairmanship was his to lose. But Greenwald, 54, flew earlier this week to Iacocca's villa in central Italy to discuss his plans with his longtime boss, a company spokesman said. ``Lee made a major effort to try and change his mind,'' an unidentified company source told The Detroit News. But Iacocca and Greenwald returned Wednesday to Detroit to make the announcement. ``It has to disturb investors that ... the person who has been designated as the next chairman of Chrysler would leave Chrysler just a few days after the Chrysler treasurer announced his resignation,'' said Ronald A. Glantz, senior vice president at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. in San Francisco. ``Not only will investors be disturbed by the management succession, they will wonder what these managers know about Chrysler that we don't know,'' Glantz said. Greenwald's resignation, effective immediately, follows those of Michael Hammes, who was vice president of international operations, and Chrysler Treasurer and Vice President Fred Zuckerman. Chrysler also has seen its market share slide and its earnings dive. The automaker reported a 80 percent drop in earnings during the first quarter of this year. It made $71 million during the period, or 32 cents a share, compared with $351 million, or $1.50 a share in the first quarter of 1989. Its U.S. market share for cars and light trucks fell from 14.1 percent at the end of April 1989 to 12.4 percent at the end of April 1990, and an austerity program launched last October will slice $1.5 billion from Chrysler's $426 billion annual budget by 1991. Greenwald, vice chairman since November 1988, will become chief executive officer of the Chicago-based United Employees Acquisition Corp., an entity formed by the airline's three major unions to handle the buyout efforts. UAL stock was up $4.75 a share to $155.62{ in mid-day trading on news of Greenwald's move. United's pilots union led an ill-fated $6.75 billion plan to acquire the airline last year. The proposal collapsed after the union and its partners, which included senior management and British Airways PLC, were unable to get bank financing for the deal, sparking a stock market panic. After the acquisition, Greenwald, 54, will become chairman and chief executive officer of UAL Corp. and United Airlines, its chief subsidiary, the employee group said in a statement. Glantz added that Greenwald is putting himself in position to cash in on the buyout. ``He's paid about $1 million a year (at Chrysler) ... but his Chrysler stock options are worthless,'' Glantz said. ``In a leveraged buyout that works, you can make tens of millions of dollars, maybe even hundreds of millions of dollars.'' Chrysler spokesman Steve Harris said there has been no decison on who will replace Greenwald, but Glantz said the logical successor is Robert S. Miller Jr., 49, now Chrysler's chief financial officer. United Auto Workers union vice president Stan Marshall, who leads the union's Chrysler department, speculated that Robert A. Lutz, president of the automaker's Chrysler Motors Corp. subsidiary, also will have a shot at filling Greenwald's shoes. ``He's been the one out there pushing the cars while Greenwald held back on putting cars on the market,'' Marshall said. Harris said the recent resignations were unrelated to each other or to the company's belt tightening. ``This really shows the depth of Chrysler's management,'' Harris said from the company's Highland Park headquarters. ``There are some very talented people here. They are sought after.'' Hammes left May 17 to become an executive vice president for Black & Decker Corp. and vice president of Black & Decker's power tool group, Harris said. Zuckerman said he resigned, effective this summer, to look elsewhere for a position in ``corporate restructuring or other senior financial officer activities.'' Greenwald worked with Iacocca at Ford Motor Co. and followed him to Chrysler in 1979. He played major roles in securing federal government loans that saved Chrysler from bankruptcy in 1979, and in negotiating the purchase of American Motors Corp. in 1987. ``I can understand Jerry's interest in an opportunity like the one United Air Lines presents today,'' Iacocca said. ``He is a major management talent, and he'll have a chance to show it.'' Greenwald said the difficult part about resigning from Chrysler will be leaving Iacocca and other Chrysler executives. ``Looking back, the most gratifying period for me were those uncertain years,'' he said. ``I've been offered an opportunity to lead another great company during a period of major transition, and it's an opportunity I can't turn down.''
AP900228-0297 	X	The union representing workers at Nordstrom Inc. filed a class-action lawsuit Wednesday, accusing the clothing retailer of widespread violations of wage and hour laws. The suit was the second to be filed against the upscale clothier in as many days. On Tuesday, a U.S. District Court suit was filed here by three Nordstrom shareholders who alleged they and other stockholders had suffered financial losses because company officials failed to disclose labor problems at the chain. United Food & Commercial Workers Union Locals 1001 and 367 and five current and former Nordstrom employees filed their suit in King County Superior Court. The suit includes in its class approximately 50,000 current and former Nordstrom workers in Washington, Oregon, California, Virginia, Utah and Alaska. The two locals represent about 1,500 Nordstrom workers in the Seattle area. Nationally, Nordstrom has about 60 stores and employs about 30,000. On Feb. 15, the Washington Department of Labor and Industries ruled Nordstrom had violated state laws by failing to pay some employees for time worked outside normal working hours. The state, acting on a complaint filed by the UFCW, found that workers had not been properly compensated for such things as attending meetings, delivering merchandise to other stores and customers, doing inventory work or writing thank-you notes to customers. Nordstrom said Monday it had made a $15 million provision for expected back pay claims by employees and adopted a procedure to handle the claims. The charge against fourth-quarter earnings was cited by the company as one reason why profits fell 34 percent in the period ending Jan. 31. Joe Peterson, Local 1001 president in Seattle, said at the time that the $15 million was far too little and threatened to sue if Nordstrom officials failed to negotiate a back-pay settlement with the union. Union officials have said claims could exceed $200 million in California alone. Nordstrom said claims forms had been sent to sales clerks in states other than Washington. In Washington state, those forms must be reviewed by the state's labor office and by the two union locals. Labor and Industries spokeswoman Karen Jones said Wednesday that the review had not yet taken place, and James Webster, attorney for Local 1001, said, ``They have not come to us to discuss that plan as they said they would in the papers.'' Webster said the union had ``hoped for a settlement from the outset,'' and was still willing to meet with company officials. The union lawsuit repeats the allegations made in the state complaint and alleges other violations of Washington and California labor laws, including that Washington employees were required to buy clothes from Nordstrom to wear at work. In a news release, Nordstrom co-chairman John Nordstrom said the company regretted the lawsuit, saying that once it was filed, ``local court rules place restrictions on our ability to communicate directly with our employees about their claims. This could slow down and perhaps bring to a halt the resolution process.'' Nordstrom said the company will continue trying to compensate for back claims, including seeking court approval to do so. The suit asks the court to order Nordstrom to keep proper employment records and award damages equal to twice the amount of wages unpaid, other damages to be determined at trial, and attorneys' fees. The union has said claims in Washington state may total $30 million to $40 million and run as high as $200 million in California. It had no estimate on likely claims in other states. To date, the union has received about 520 claims from workers worth about $2.5 million.
AP880406-0091 	X	Alan Paton, the country's best known author, was recovering today from surgery for an undisclosed ailment, a press report said. Paton, whose 1948 novel ``Cry, The Beloved Country'' drew a compelling picture of South Africa's apartheid system of racial segregation, was in ``fairly serious condition'' after Tuesday's operation, according to an unidentified heart surgeon quoted by the South African Press Association. A spokeswoman at St. Augustine's Hospital in Durban said today that Paton was in stable condition. The 85-year-old novelist underwent surgery after being admitted to the Durban hospital Monday, the news agency said. Paton's ``Cry, The Beloved Country'' is the second best-selling book ever in South Africa after the Bible. Paton worked in anti-apartheid politics for many years with the United Party and still contributes political commentary to South African newspapers. By law and custom, apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. The 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services.
AP900530-0018 	X	Shining Path rebels assassinated two leaders of presidential candidate Mario Vargas Llosa's Democratic Front coalition in separate attacks, police said. The shootings took place less than two weeks before Vargas Llosa, a celebrated novelist and free-market advocate, faces centrist Alberto Fujimori in a runoff presidential election. Fujimori, a political newcomer, is favored to win the June 10 showdown. Felix Vega Riquelme, the former governor of Piura, was shot to death on Tuesday in the coastal city 530 miles northwest of Lima, police said. Hours later, in the Andean city of Cerro de Pasco, Prospero Delson Huaman was shot and killed, police said. Cerro de Pasco is 110 miles northeast of Lima. Vega was gunned down by two men on a motorcycle as he was getting out of a pickup truck, police said. An unidentified companion was seriously wounded. Delson was shot twice in the head by two rebels as he walked home from his job at the Centromin mining company, police said. Before the formation of the Democratic Front coalition, both men were leaders of the center-right Popular Action Party of former president Fernando Belaunde. The Maoist-inspired Shining Path has tried to sabotage the electoral process in Peru. Before April 8 general elections, the rebels called an armed strike in Lima and most of Peru's countryside. The government says more than 18,000 people have died in political violence since the Shining Path took up arms 10 years ago. Also Tuesday, police said villagers armed with sticks, stones and machetes battled over a disputed plot of land, leaving seven people dead. As many as 50 people were injured in the clash, which took place Monday night between the small Andean villages of Lircaycacca and Chinabamba, police said. The villages are 30 miles southeast of Huancavalica, an Andean city 145 miles southeast of Lima. The land battle followed three years of deteriorating relations between the two isolated villages, police said. Earlier clashes between the villages, each of which has 200 to 300 residents, resulted in injuries but no deaths, police said.
AP880224-0243 	X	St. Joseph's Aspirin for Children, once a leader in over-the-counter pain relief for youngsters, is slowly disappearing from medicine cabinets. The manufacture of the chewable orange tablets ended in December 1986 as Shering Plough Corp. of Madison focuses on chewable low-dosage aspirin products for adults concerned about preventing heart disease. Aspirin-free pain relievers and name-brand aspirin products competed with each other until the American Academy of Pediatrics, in a report in 1982, said giving aspirin to children suffering from chicken pox and influenza increased the risk of contracting Reye's syndrome. The illness is fatal in about 20 percent to 30 percent of the cases, and some survivors suffer permanent brain damage. The government in 1986 ordered warning labels on all aspirin bottles about the risk to children and teen-agers of contracting Reye's syndrome. The market ``dropped considerably from 1980 with the Reye's syndrome business,'' said Terry Kelly, a spokesman for Sterling Drug Inc. of New York, which still manufactures Bayer's Aspirin for Children. ``We feel there are certain patients for whom children's aspirin is appropriate,'' Kelly said. St. Joseph's Aspirin for Children, first marketed in 1949, was replaced with aspirin-free tablets called St. Joseph's Aspirin-Free Fever Reducer. Jim Saberton, a consultant with Kline & Co. Inc. in Fairfield, said Wednesday that the children's aspirin market has become relatively small with sales of about $15 million in 1986 compared with sales of about $115 million for the non-aspirin pain reliever acetominophen that same year. ``The risk and work involved in making aspirin is unattractive, especially since there's acetominophen,'' he said. St. Joseph's Aspirin for Children and Bayer Children's Aspirin each had about $5 million in sales in 1986, with the balance of sales taken up by generic brands, he said. He also said Johnson & Johnson's Tylenol products, which use acetominophen, cut heavily into sales of St. Joseph's, which once held 50 percent of the children's pain-reliever market while Bayer had the other half. Lewis Nolan, a Schering Plough spokesman, said, however, that his company disputes the link of aspirin to Reye's syndrome. ``It's been our position that there's been no scientific valid evidence to link aspirin and Reye's syndrome,'' he said. St. Joseph's Low Dose Adult Aspirin was introduced last month, although the company makes no claim in relation to aspirin's effectiveness against heart disease. The low dose aspirin product label advises it not be given to young children, he said. Kelly said his company showed higher sales of Bayer Children's Aspirin during 1987, although he could not say if it was due to Shering Plough leaving the market. ``I think the first increase you saw was ours last year. I cannot analyze why that is,'' he said.
AP900112-0032 	X	Proponents of artificial hearts fear the Food and Drug Administration's withdrawal of approval for the Jarvik heart could hurt research toward a totally implantable device, but most see it as a temporary setback. And they don't believe the action will have a serious impact on heart patients because other temporary heart-assist devices still are available as a bridge to a heart transplant. ``It is a shame because the Jarvik, for its limitation, did make some positive contributions,'' said Dr. Antonio Gotto, chief of internal medical services at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston and past president of the American Heart Association. ``I hope this will be only a temporary, not a permanent, setback toward the goal of achieving a totally implantable heart.'' The FDA informed Symbion Inc. of Tempe, Ariz., this week that it was withdrawing approval for continued investigational uses of its artificial heart, both as a permanent replacement and a temporary bridge for patients awaiting a human heart transplant. The Jarvik heart, named after its inventor, Dr. Robert Jarvik, gained household recognition after it was implanted in Barney Clark on Dec. 2, 1982. He lived 112 days, his new heart tethered to a bulky external power system, before he succumbed to multiple organ failure. In revoking Symbion's approval, the FDA said it had found ``serious deficiencies'' in manufacturing quality control, monitoring of research sites, servicing of equipment, training of personnel and reporting of adverse reactions to FDA. Dr. Donald Olsen, director of the University of Utah's Institute for Biomedical Engineering, said he was ``surprised and disappointed'' by the FDA's action and hoped it would not hurt future federal funding of artificial heart research in general, particularly for totally implantable devices. ``Our concern, of course, is that this particular publicity will not have a negative influence'' on artificial heart development in general, said Olsen. ``But I would like to make sure (people know) that the artificial heart did not fail; it was a failure on the part of Symbion to meet the requirements of the FDA'' for improving the device. Gerson Rosenberg, a biomedical engineer who leads Pennsylvania State University's efforts to design an electric heart, said he did not think the decision to pull the Jarvik would hinder research. But others felt the decision could slow research in the field. ``By removing the Jarvik, you take the first and main artificial heart player out of the ballgame,'' said Dr. Jacob Kolff, who heads Temple University's efforts to develop the temporary ``Philadelphia Heart.'' ``That leaves a bit of a vacuum for those researchers who think there may be a future for an artificial heart,'' said the surgeon, whose father, Dr. Willem Kolff, developed the first artificial kidney in 1943. Withdrawal of the permanent Jarvik heart leaves only one other natural-heart replacement with FDA investigational approval, but that device is used only as a temporary bridge and only at Hershey Medical Center of Penn State. Other companies have approvals for temporary implants and for left ventricular assist pumps that help the natural heart work without replacement.
AP900601-0093 	X	A tanker carrying 375,000 gallons of fuel oil ran aground today in the Delaware River but was refloated a few hours later without any apparent leaks, authorities said. The Norwegian tanker Manhattan Princess, operated by Ahlers Shipping of Belgium, grounded on a muddy bottom on the New Jersey side of the river at 12:45 a.m. today, said Coast Guard Lt. Pete Hoffman. Coast Guard Lt. Pete Hoffman said two tugboats pulling on the tanker got it off the bottom with little trouble after high tide arrived about 9:15 a.m. Investigators found no leakage or ship damage, he said. The ship, drawing 37 feet of water, was en route to the Hess terminal in Pennsauken, N.J., when it wandered out of the 40-foot deep channel. An investigator went along with the tanker to look into the cause of the grounding, Hoffman said. The ease of refloating the tanker was an indication that the tanker wasn't very hard aground on the soft, muddy bottom, Hoffman said, and it also suggested that there wouldn't be any damage to the hull.
AP881126-0128 	X	Two mothers tipped police to drugs in their sons' bedrooms, leading to the arrest of one of the teen-agers and confiscation of cocaine from both, police said. The recent arrest of a 14-year-old Landover boy came after his mother told police that she had found the drug in the youth's room, said Carol Landrum, a spokesman for the police department. The son was charged with possession of a controlled dangerous substance with intent to distribute and was being held at Boys Village in Cheltenham, Landrum said. Police said they seized 19 grams of cocaine, which officers said could sell for $4,700 if divided into smaller amounts. Only one day earlier, another Landover woman told police she found nearly seven ounces of cocaine, with a street value police placed at about $47,000, under her son's bed and a handgun in his dresser drawer. Police did not immediately make an arrest in that case, Landrum said. Police declined to identify either woman. Police Chief Robert Zidek in neighboring Bladensburg, whose department offers parents a videotape showing how to search for drugs, said the mothers probably did the right thing to help their sons. ``They may have tried everything else, and nothing worked,'' Zidek said. He advises parents who think their child is using drugs to talk to the child first, get the child professional counseling and save calling the police as a last resort.
AP880220-0101 	X	Future peace talks between Nicaragua's leftist government and its Contra rebels are likely to have a political hue the Sandinistas never wanted. The government appeared to open the door to political discussions with its armed opponents by belatedly agreeing in principle last week to a proposal by the mediator of the negotiations, Cardinal Miguel Obando y Bravo, head of the Roman Catholic Church in Nicaragua. That proposal called on the Contras to accept a cease-fire in exchange for four major concessions by the Sandinista government. The concessions were something the Contras had been seeking, and they were quick to accept the cardinal's plan. The government was called upon to grant unrestricted freedom of the press and a total, unconditional amnesty for political prisoners, renew a dialogue with its internal opposition and review its universal military conscription law. Whether it was a tactical error or a considered response, the Sandinistas delayed in taking a position that President Daniel Ortega has long and strenuously opposed. On innumerable occasions in the past, he has said he would never discuss political matters with the Contras. ``We don't want to create the impression that we don't want a cease-fire and are being intransigent,'' said Paul Reichler, a Washington, D.C., attorney who advises the Sandinistas. ``At all costs, we want the negotiations to go forward.'' Reichler's comments came in a chat with reporters Friday after Obando y Bravo abruptly suspended the latest round of peace talks a day before they were supposed to end and obliquely blamed the Sandinistas for the breakdown. Ortega said Saturday in Managua that the cardinal's proposal ``was not rejected'' by the Sandinistas and said his government ``is willing to continue the conversations.'' But a clarification was needed on the withdrawal of the Contras to enclaves during the truce, Ortega said at the close of a government meeting. He repeated that his government is willing to apply an amnesty once a cease-fire is in effect. Referring to the military draft, he said ``it is logical that with the end of the war the military service will not require the current volume (of soldiers).'' Ortega told the meeting on new economic measures aimed at fighting inflation that ``enemies of the revolution'' opposed the measures. He said the right, the extreme left and the opposition daily La Prensa should be careful not to stir up insurrection. The cardinal said after his return to Managua on Saturday that with the suspension of talks, ``We have given time for reflection since there is a lack of trust between the two sides.'' Appearances are of vital importance to both sides, with neither party wanting to be seen as the spoiler as long as there is any remaining chance the U.S. Congress might approve additional military aid for the Contras. In private talks with reporters, the Sandinistas made it clear that they were initially surprised by the cardinal's five-point proposal, then disappointed by his abrupt cancellation of the talks. Victor Hugo Tinoco, Nicaragua's deputy foreign minister, said Obando halted the negotiations Friday afternoon before he had a chance to deliver the government's formal, written response to the proposal the cardinal put forth Thursday. But Tinoco insisted that he had discussed the government's position at length with the cardinal Friday morning and had not been given any reason to believe that the cardinal was unwilling to continue the negotiations. The cardinal ``did not tell us he disagreed'' with the government's position, Reichler told reporters later. In its written response, the government declared its ``agreement in principle'' with the cardinal's proposal, but carefully conditioned its answers to his requests that it reconsider its mandatory draft law and grant an unconditional amnesty to the thousands of political prisoners in Nicaraguan jails. But before Nicaragua's formal response was delivered, Obando had canceled the talks, saying he was disappointed that both sides had not accepted his proposal, at least in principle. The remark was clearly aimed at the Sandinistas. But late or not, the government's response clearly put such political matters as press freedom and amnesty on the bargaining table for further talks and, given the opening, the Contras are likely to push for even greater concessions. The cardinal is expected to announce a time and place for a third round of face-to-face negotiations sometime this week. The first round of talks took place in San Jose, Costa Rica, in late January, only a week before the House rejected President Reagan's latest request for about $43 million in additional Contra aid. But the administration is considering a new bid for military aid for the rebels, and as long as that possibility exists, both sides will be playing their cards cautiously at the bargaining table.
AP900310-0154 	X	NBC's Jane Pauley, safely away from the woes and slipping ratings of the ``Today'' show she once co-hosted, starts life anew in prime time Tuesday with an appropriately entitled special: ``Changes.'' Her own changes include anchoring a prime-time news series that NBC once said might start this summer. However, it has no executive producer yet and may not arrive until fall or even January, she says. But she doesn't consider this the NBC News version of ``Waiting for Godot.'' ``I think it's very sensible,'' Pauley says of the delay. In her view, ``Corporations don't normally behave sensibly if there is some pressure to put something on the air. But this strikes me as a very rational way to approach a weekly series, and I'm very pleased with that.'' On Saturday, Pauley, who also has been filling in for Tom Brokaw on the ``NBC Nightly News,'' leaves for East Germany to start another documentary on sports there. A few more documentaries lie ahead after that. Tuesday's special is about three people and one couple whose lives are in transition. Work on the first story, about Frank Morgan, a 56-year-old acclaimed jazz saxophonist who spent much of his life in prison, began in December. That was the month that Pauley, her contract extended to 1992, bid adieu to 13 years of predawn wakeups for ``Today.'' She had told its audience in October she was leaving and got a hug then from her successor, Deborah Norville. But since January, ``Today'' hasn't exactly been hugged by viewers, even though Pauley took pains in October to assure them she wasn't at odds with Norville or co-host Bryant Gumbel, whom she called her friends. Although NBC executives say they have no research to indicate it, ``Today'' likely was hurt and ABC's ``Good Morning America'' helped by the turmoil preceding Pauley's decision to leave. Those off-camera troubles last year included the leak of Gumbel's caustic memo criticizing staffers, notably weatherman Willard Scott, and the decision of NBC executives, including ``Today'' vice president Dick Ebersol, to replace veteran ``Today'' news anchor John Palmer with Norville. Although NBC officials have said they expected a dip in ``Today'' ratings when Norville moved up from news anchor to succeed Pauley in January, the dip now is in its third month. ABC's ``Good Morning America'' easily won the important February ratings ``sweeps,'' the results used by TV stations to set their advertising rates. It averaged a 4.5 rating, which was good news for ABC affiliates. No so for NBC affiliates. ``Today,'' according to NBC's estimate, had a 3.65 average in the sweeps _ well below the 4.6 it had in February 1989 when it won the reveille ratings race. Each ratings point now represents 921,000 homes. Pauley, who last year kept a stiff upper lip and never publicly complained about the behind-camera woes at ``Today,'' is sympathetic to its current ratings problems. ``Well, I've been there before,'' she says, harking back to a time when she co-hosted ``Today'' with Brokaw and the Nielsen verdict was that ``Good Morning America,'' then hosted by David Hartman, had become No. 1. ``It was almost a relief when it finally happened,'' she says. ``Because from that moment on, we were able to scramble and get our act together and come back.'' She thinks the same thing will happen again, and that those in charge of ``Today,'' including new executive producer Tom Capra, will ``be able to put together something that comes on pretty strong.'' Pauley laughed uproariously when asked about an upcoming report in the National Enquirer confiding that NBC, on bended knee, had begged her to return to ``Today'' and that she has agreed to interview guests on two of five shows each week, starting in April. ``Totally bogus,'' she said. Her own thoughts about the ``Today'' turmoil and its effect on the show's ratings? ``Obviously, I can't personalize it,'' she said. ``And yet, I think that an explanation is that there were `dislocations,' shall we say, on the `Today' show. ... And I think that bothers people, especially early in the morning. ``It's not just that `Jane is gone.' It's just that there was too much disruption. In the morning, you want, er, regularity.''
AP900416-0171 	X	Yellow Creek used to run black for miles, with a stench that made people retch. Red blisters disfigured fish in the stream. People downstream blamed pollution from a tannery and aged sewage treatment plant in this town of 13,000 for their neighbors' cancer deaths as well as their foul well water. In 1983, the city engineer testified that 2.5 million gallons of raw or partly treated sewage had been dumped into Yellow Creek that year alone. Today, Yellow Creek sparkles as it winds quietly through the thickly forested Appalachian hills. People who live along the creek say water quality is probably the best they've seen in a decade and credit the $7.7 million sewage treatment plant built in 1986. Credit is also due to the Yellow Creek Concerned Citizens, a local environmental group that has labored since 1980, filing lawsuits, lobbying Congress, holding candlelight memorials for people they believe were fatally sickened by pollution, occupying city hall to demand that the creek be cleaned. But the black tide, although receded, left behind a legacy of health questions and lingering legal challenges. Neighbors suspect that years of tannery pollution deposited a layer of toxic sediment in the creek bed. And they're worried that a new court agreement will loosen pollution regulations. Over the years, word of Yellow Creek and its lessons has stretched well beyond this mountainous corner of southeastern Kentucky. The tactics and victories of the Yellow Creek Concerned Citizens are being studied by environmental groups across America, and in some cases, around the world. ``Remember, this struggle for the small community of Yellow Creek is in no way the only one,'' said M.M. Chiputa of the Southern African Environmental Network of Zaire. ``We have it, you have it and they have it.'' Yellow Creek has gained such attention largely because of Larry Wilson, the president of the citizens group. Wilson is environmental programs director at the Highlander Institute in New Market, Tenn., which holds training sessions for social activists who hail from Bhopal, India, to Dayhoit, Ky. As a polished insider of the national environmental movement, Wilson wields influence that last month drew more than 100 activists from Massachusetts to Arkansas to a meeting on the future of Yellow Creek. John O'Connor, executive director of the National Toxics Campaign in Boston, struck a common theme among many of the speakers at the March 31 meeting. ``We kind of feel if they can get away with poisoning people in Yellow Creek, they can get away with poisoning anyone in the United States,'' O'Connor said. Yet Yellow Creek is anything but poisonous today, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. EPA environmental engineer Ron Barrow said results of a study of creek water and surface sediment, to be released later this month, will ``show significant improvements'' over a 1982 study of creek pollution. A standard EPA test using water fleas showed they not only survived but also reproduced in full-strength effluent from the new sewage plant. And Dirk Anderson, manager of the Middlesboro Tannery Co., says it ``has done an excellent job in meeting state and federal guidelines'' and ``installed the most efficient pretreatment system in the tanning industry today.'' He says the tannery's waste water ``is one of the best discharges in the United States'' and asks, ``What is the controversy?'' To many residents, the controversy remains vivid. An advisory warning residents of Bell County since the early 1980s not to swim in the creek, drink its water or eat its fish is still in force. Wilson asserts that he ``feels really comfortable'' in estimating that 100 deaths in the valley from cancer, leukemia and other illness can be linked to the pollution. A 1988 study of Bell County cancer rates, while failing to tie the illness to creek pollution, did show that residents face an increased risk of cancer. ``Those cancers that have been linked to occupational exposure to tannery work tend to be higher in Bell County than the comparison groups,'' said the report by Lorann Stallones, an epidemiologist with the University of Kentucky Medical Center. And a study done in the early 1980s by Vanderbilt University's Center for Health Services indicated that residents who drank well water tended to have higher rates of miscarriages, kidney and digestive ailments. A $31 million lawsuit filed by residents against the tannery in 1983 requested long-term health monitoring, a proposal supported then by a leading state health official. ``Toxic chemicals often take many years to produce their effects, and certainly there have been significant exposures in the past because of the tannery effluent,'' Dr. Arthur L. Frank of the University of Kentucky Medical Center said in a statement for the lawsuit. No long-term monitoring is underway, and the lawsuit is still pending in state court. Many of these concerns deal less with the creek's current water quality and more with the sediment on its bottom. A University of Louisville chemist probing the creek bed in 1987 found deep deposits of chromium, a byproduct of tanning. In research by the National Cancer Institute, chromium is suspected of causing cancer in humans. W. Hank Graddy III, attorney for the citizens' group, said the study indicated chromium was still accumulating ``even after all these years of litigation and trying (to) ... require them to adopt controls.'' Barrow, the EPA engineer, and Bill Phillips, an attorney for the agency, said they were not aware of any complaints about chromium deposits until a reporter posed questions about the matter earlier this month. That reaction, along with other official stances, has made Yellow Creek residents suspicious of government regulators, especially the EPA. Creek residents are worried, for example, about a new court document signed by the city, the tannery and the EPA that will alter the amount of chromium, cyanide, mercury, and bacteria allowed in tannery wastewater sent to the sewage plant. Graddy, Wilson and others contend the agreement will increase the permissable amounts and cause Yellow Creek to be polluted again. Attorneys for the city, tannery and EPA all say it would tighten pollution regulations, not make the situation worse. The agreement amends a 1985 consent decree that settled a 1984 lawsuit filed by the Justice Department. That suit alleged numerous violations of EPA regulations because raw sewage was spilling into the creek. The disagreement is so strong because each side is comparing the new document to a different prior arrangement: the officials assert the provisions strengthen the 5-year-old consent decree, and the environmentalists say they are weaker than those in an operative pollution permit dating from 1985. The citizens' group also opposes the agreement because it would reduce the fines levied against the city and tannery. Together, they have been fined at least $1.62 million for federal pollution violations, but collections would total only $177,400 under the pending amendment. ``The burden of proof is on the victims here,'' Wilson said, ``because government agencies and industry already have the money and lawyers in place to defend their position. ... ``We're overwhelmed,'' he said. ``We're fighting life and death.''
AP880504-0011 	X	African guerrilla leader Sam Nujoma is asking presidential hopefuls Michael Dukakis and Jesse Jackson to pressure South Africa into relinquishing control over South-West Africa, the territory known as Namibia. Nujoma, who heads the South-West Africa People's Organization, said he had met with campaign managers who promised him a meeting with the two Democratic candidates within the coming week. GOP contender George Bush has not responded to a similar request for a meeting, Nujoma said in an interview Tuesday. Nujoma, 58, said that despite claims to the contrary, South Africa is trying to strengthen its hold over the mineral-rich territory which it rules in defiance of a 1978 U.N. resolution calling for Namibian independence. Nujoma, who lives in exile in Angola, accused South African troops of arson and bombing attacks against Namibia's 1.5 million residents, including the burning of 14 church-run schools last month. South Africa has denied the charges, accusing SWAPO of the attacks. South African President P.W. Botha paid a rare visit to the territory on April 8, and proposed increased powers for his chief representative there. The proposal would weaken the ``transitional'' government established by South Africa in 1985 with a view to eventual independence for Namibia. ``South Africa has no intention whatsoever to leave Namibia,'' said Nujoma. The South Africans will have to be ``forced out by the combined resistance of the Namibian people and international pressure.'' He called on the next U.S. administration to pursue steps similar to the trade sanctions legislated by Congress in 1986 against South Africa. Nujoma said he had requested a meeting with Secretary of State George P. Shultz but had not received any response. A State Department official confirmed Nujoma had asked for a meeting, and said Shultz had yet to reply. Shultz has been criticized by conservative members of Congress, such as Rep. Patrick Swindall, R-Ga., for allowing Nujoma into the country in view of his organization's guerrilla activities and support from the Soviet Union. In a letter to Shultz, Swindall called Nujoma a ``terrorist and Soviet puppet.'' The United States supports a South African pullout and an independent Namibia, but its contacts with SWAPO have been limited. U.S. representatives are taking part in two days of talks in London with representatives from Angola, Cuba and South Africa on a plan for the pullout of South African forces from Namibia and Cuban troops from Angola. Cuba has an estimated 37,000 soldiers in Angola. Estimates for the South African military presence in Namibia range from 40,000 to 100,000. Nujoma said he was sure Angola would protect his group's interests at the talks and press its demands for Namibian independence. ``It will be a package, I am assured of this by the Angolan government,'' he said. If an agreement is worked out, SWAPO will stop its attacks against South African troops, he said. SWAPO says it killed more than 90 South Africans this year, but its claims cannot be verified. Nujoma conceded that SWAPO gets most of its arms and training from the Soviet Union, Cuba, Yugoslavia, Angola and several other members of the Organization of African Unity. But he added that if the United States wants to supply SWAPO with weapons, ``we will certainly accept it with great pleasure.'' Nujoma is on a three-week visit to the United States to attend several U.N.-sponsored seminars on Namibia and to highlight his organization's demands.
AP900916-0054 	X	Voters attacked election officials and smashed ballot boxes Sunday, claiming the country's first multiparty elections in 22 years were rigged in favor of President Omar Bongo. One election official was reported hurt in the violence, which forced the closing of the main voting station in the capital city of Libreville. Sunday was the first of two rounds of voting to elect 120 legislators from 520 candidates in the oil-rich West African nation of 1.2 million people. Bongo called the election and legalized opposition parties following a wave of protests earlier this year. Bongo had permitted only his Democratic Party to operate since shortly after taking power in late 1967. Violence began after voters at the largest balloting station, Libreville's Hotel de Ville, said they discovered stuffed ballot boxes before voting began. They smashed the boxes and assaulted officials, witnesses said. At several voting stations in the capital, particularly in the populous suburbs of Lalala and Venez-Voir, election officials asked voters to deposit unmarked ballots. Shocked voters cried out that the elections were ``a scandal.''Journalists saw ballot papers that did not match the official forms circulating in Libreville. In Tchibanga, a small town about 300 miles southeast of Libreville, an independent radio station reported voters ransacked the election office and town hall and beat up election officials. The attacks there began after voters learned there were not enough ballots, and some of the 37 opposition parties claimed their tickets had been removed from voting booths, the station reported. The government did not immediately respond to the charges of fraud. It also was not clear if ballots would be counted or whether future voting will be held. Bongo's opponents accuse him of corruption, nepotism and economic policies that cause unemployment. They have promised better health care, education, housing and roads. Bongo, one of a handful of civilian leaders in West Africa, has said his party is ready to entertain new ideas. The Democratic Party already was assured of 13 uncontested assembly seats. The death of Progress Party leader Joseph Rendjambe on May 23 triggered widespread rioting by followers who accused Bongo of orchestrating his murder. The unrest ended after French and Gabonese doctors performed an autopsy and concluded Rendjambe, a diabetic, died of natural causes. The worst violence occurred in Port Gentil, where demonstrators burned down the French consulate and took some foreign oil executives hostage. France sent troops and the hostages were freed. Gabon, which achieved independence in 1960, receives about 80 percent of its income from oil.
AP880725-0226 	X	How does an adult reviewer approach a movie such as ``Big Top Pee-wee''? Very carefully. If you lambaste it as an entertainment aimed at the 5-year-old audience, you might be accurate. But you could also be accused of being a kill-joy and a fogy. If you try to compare it with the innocent comedy of the silent screen, you might also score some points. But you could also be accused of hunting for gold in a pile of dross. So here goes. ``Big Top Pee-wee'' is a clever piece of pure entertainment conceived by Paul Reubens and executed by Pee-wee Herman, who are the same person. Those who loved ``Pee-wee's Big Adventure'' will adore this one. The story begins with Pee-wee waking up on the most antiseptic farm in the world. Everything is sunny and bright, matching Pee-wee's personality. The animals sleep on mattresss and eat flapjacks at a picnic table. Pee-wee's greenhouse is a wonder. With his magic food supplements, he can grow anything. Even hot dogs. Pee-wee's constant companion is Vance, a pure-white pig. Vance talks. With a charity seldom seen in comedians, Pee-wee gives Vance most of the punchlines. But then, how are you going to upstage a talking pig? Every day Pee-wee is scheduled for a sandwich lunch with his heartthrob, the local schoolmarm (Penelope Ann Miller). For such a shy man, Pee-wee can be aggressive. He throws his body on top of the schoolmarm, who resists him because the schoolkids are watching. And taking snapshots. Then the circus comes to the farm. A new set of animals are roaming the acres, as well as exotic circus people, such as the Italian aerialist (Valeria Golino), with whom Pee-wee falls in love. The townspeople object to having the circus in their midst, providing a modicum of conflict to the script. Centerstage at all times is Pee-wee Herman, a man with a squeaky voice, tight suit and white socks. He is, in the end, an endearing character, guileless yet savvy. He wears well, despite the inane circumstances in which he finds himself. Kris Kristofferson as the circus boss lends strength, though his three-inch wife (Susan Tyrell) stretches fantasy too far. Randal Kleiser directed in a straightforward fashion. Only one sequence is truly hilarious, and that is borrowed from Alfred Hitchcock. When Pee-wee finally makes love with the aerialist, we see a train entering a tunnel (``North by Northwest'') and skyrockets exploding (``To Catch a Thief''). ``Big Top Pee-wee'' was produced by Reubens and Debra Hill, and written by him and George McGrath. The rating is PG, perhaps for sexual innuendo. Running time: 87 minutes.
AP900612-0062 	X	A 17-year-old Israeli going to pray at the Western Wall was stabbed twice in the stomach today in the walled Old City, authorities said. A police roundup of Palestinian suspects set off more violence. The incidents came the day after Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir won a vote of confidence in Parliament for his new right-wing government. Cabinet members today promised new steps to put down the 2{-year-old Palestinian uprising. Israel radio reported that the new defense minister, Moshe Arens, began consulting high-ranking army officers today on how to end the uprising in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. The new foreign minister, David Levy, suggested the army could withdraw from the occupied lands as part of a peace settlement. But he repeated the new government's opposition to Palestinian demands for statehood in the territories. The new government's agriculture minister, Rafael Eitan, who led Israel's forces in the 1982 invasion of Lebanon, suggested on army radio that more Palestinians be deported. ``Instead of shooting at children you have to deport those responsible, the inciters, the organizers,'' he said. Since the start of the uprising in December 1987, 60 Arabs have been expelled to neighboring Lebanon. After today's stabbing in Jerusalem, police seized up about 100 Palestinians near Damascus Gate, one of the main entrances to the Old City, said Jersualem police commander Arieh Bibi. The arrests set off a spate of stone-throwing at Israeli cars on Sultan Suleiman Street just outside the city walls, but no injuries were reported. The victim, identified as Yosef Edri, was in moderate condition at Sharei Tzadek Hospital, spokeswoman Orna Cohen said. He is a student at a yeshiva, or Jewish seminary, and is from Dimona in Israel's Negev Desert. Bibi told Israel radio that police had recovered the knife. In the West Bank and Gaza Strip, meanwhile, soldiers destroyed three houses of Palestinians accused of throwing firebombs or killing suspected Arab collaborators and sealed two other homes of Palestinian suspects. One of the suspects, 25-year-old Abdel Hakim Shana, was convicted of murdering alleged collaborators and sentenced to life imprisonment. Soldiers tore down the four-room house owned by his father, which was home to a family of 12. The Supreme Court rejected appeals from some families of the suspects. U.S. policy opposes the demolition of houses as an unfair collective punishment. The Israeli Information Center for Human Rights in the Occupied Territories said there has been a marked decline in recent months in destruction of houses by the army. It said that through the end of May a total of 293 houses were destroyed and 173 sealed for security reasons. Several hundred others have been destroyed for being built without a permit.
AP880925-0059 	X	And of course, as far as the _ how we make it better _ yes, we can do better on interdiction, but we've got to do a lot better on inter _ we've got to do a lot better on education. And we have to do _ be tougher on those who commit crimes. We've got to get after the users more. We have to change this whole culture. You know, I saw a movie, ``Crocodile Dundee.'' And I saw the cocaine scene treated with humor, as though this was a humorous little incident. And it's bad. Everybody ought to be in this thing _ entertainment industry, people involved in the schools, education. And it isn't a Republican or Democrat or a liberal problem, but we have got to instill values in these young people. And I have put forward a many-point drug program that includes what I would do as president of the United States in terms of doing better on interdiction, and in terms of doing better in the neighborhoods. But I think we're all in this together, and my plea to the American people is: values in the schools.
AP880817-0342 	X	R.P. Scherer Corp.'s largest shareholder, waging a proxy battle Wednesday that could lead to the sale of the company her late father founded and estranged husband runs, said there's no reason to believe the capsule maker's brisk earnings pace will continue. Karla Scherer Fink, addressing shareholders at the company's annual meeting here in an effort to win three seats on Scherer's board, said the company's strong financial position makes this an opportune time to sell. But after an hour of civilized wrangling, Chairman Wilbur Mack adjourned the meeting until 10 a.m. EDT next Wednesday, when he said results of the balloting would be announced. Ballots were turned over to the accounting firm of Arthur Young & Co. for tabulation. Meanwhile, Mrs. Fink and her brother, John S. Scherer, were given an eleventh-hour boost when a state Court of Appeals judge ordered that a block of 9.3 percent of Scherer's stock, held in trust for them, not be voted. The trustee of the block, Manufacturers National Bank, indicated it would back management. In nationwide over-the-counter trading, Scherer closed up $1.37{ to $26.25. Speaking to about 200 people attending the meeting, Mrs. Fink, daughter of the company's late founder Robert P. Scherer, said, ``There are interested potential buyers watching closely what goes on here ... But they will not come forward in the kind of hostile environment the management has created.'' Mrs. Fink filed for divorce from Peter Fink, Scherer's president and chief executive, several months ago after the board rejected her proposal to sell the company. In his address to shareholders, Fink countered that ``to divert and to distract management and employees with a continuation of the controversy that has marked these past several months would be a grave disservice to the company and the shareholders.'' While management does not intend to ``put a for-sale sign on the door,'' he said, ``if a bonafide offer were to emerge, it would clearly be our board's duty to give it thorough and full consideration.'' After the meeting Mrs. Fink refused to predict the outcome of the vote. ``We're hoping,'' she said. In a statement released later, John Scherer said the pair was ``confident our candidates had won the two board seats ... We were not certain about the third seat. But as the meeting progressed and we learned the bank could not vote the trust, our optimism increased.'' Fink said the company ``wants to first determine what the outcome of this election is.'' Fink added that ``we simply cannot afford to be sidetracked by a headline-making personality conflict.'' Scherer, employing about 2,800 people at 22 facilities in 13 countries, is the world's largest maker of gelatin capsules for the pharmaceutical and nutritional supplement industries. The company had $290.7 million in sales and $15.1 million in net income in its last fiscal year, ended March 31. Mrs. Fink and her brother control about 38.2 percent of the company but are seeking control over an additional 470,000 shares _ or 9.3 percent _ that are held in two family trusts set up by their father. The support of another shareholder, Cilluffo Associates, brings the total shares backing the pair to 39.9 percent. The two had sought removal of Manufacturers National Bank as administrator of the trusts, claiming it had conflicting interests. A probate court judge named an independent fiduciary to decide how the stock should be voted. A circuit court judge overturned that ruling, and the two asked the state court of appeals to reverse the circuit judge's ruling. The dispute has been marked by letters and calls to shareholders, advertisements and news releases.
AP900811-0020 	X	With Magellan safely in orbit around Venus today, exuberant NASA engineers started preparing the spacecraft for a mapping mission meant to reveal what forces shaped the landscape of the hellishly hot planet. ``We think we'll see lots of rocky surfaces, hills and dales and volcanoes,'' said Bill Johnson, chief engineer for Magellan's radar imaging system. Geologists hope the $744 million exploration will reveal ``the way the planet works internally, the way mountains are built and the way volcanoes work,'' said Steve Saunders, chief Magellan scientist at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. The mapping is set to start next month. On Friday, Magellan plunged over the north pole of Venus, fired its braking rocket and dropped into an elliptical orbit that ranges from about 171 miles to 5,054 miles above the planet's surface. ``We made it!'' said Carolynn Young, a Magellan project team member. ``I had goose bumps from head to toe. It's wonderful.'' The spacecraft successfully jettisoned the retrorocket Friday night, laboratory spokesman Bob MacMillin said. He said engineers' plans for today included monitoring Magellan's performance and collecting precise information on its orbit _ details needed for successful mapping. Magellan's arrival at Venus broke a string of bad luck for NASA. Hydrogen gas leaks have grounded the shuttle fleet temporarily and a mirror focusing flaw severely impaired the $1.5 billion Hubble Space Telescope. Magellan is equipped with radar designed to peer through the thick Venusian clouds and unveil the landscape of the second planet from the sun. On Sept. 1, it will start mapping by bouncing radar waves off Venus and capturing the echoes. NASA said the radar should be able to yield pictures and maps of about 90 percent of Venus at a level of detail 10 times better than in images produced by two Soviet Venera spacecraft that were launched in 1983. It should be able to detect features as small as about two football fields. ``It's like going to the Grand Canyon instead of having someone tell you about it,'' mission analyst Rob Lock said. Magellan project manager Tony Spear said some worthwhile pictures of Venus' surface may be produced by radar tests that start next Thursday, but ``it is most likely in September ... that we will get images of sufficient quality.'' Magellan was launched from the shuttle Atlantis on May 4, 1989, starting a roundabout 948-million-mile journey to Venus. It met the planet at a distance of 144 million miles from Earth. Venus is Earth's nearest neighbor other than the moon, and is similar to Earth in size, mass, density and position. Magellan may reveal similarities and differences between the two planets, including whether any of Venus' volcanoes are active and whether its surface features are formed by large-scale movements of gigantic plates of rocky crust. It also will look for signs that the bone-dry planet may have had oceans before a runaway ``greenhouse effect'' raised its surface temperature to 900 degrees Fahrenheit. Saunders said Magellan has no ability to determine what caused global warming on Venus, but may find clues to when it started. Lennard Fisk, NASA's associate administrator for space science, called Magellan's arrival at Venus ``the beginning of one of the most exciting eras of planetary exploration'' _ a period that includes upcoming missions to Jupiter, Mars, Saturn, asteroids and comets. Magellan was the first U.S. planetary spacecraft launched since Pioneers 12 and 13 were sent to Venus in 1978, and also the first launched from a shuttle. Magellan, named for 16th century global circumnavigator Ferdinand Magellan, is 21 feet long and 15 feet wide. After firing the heavy fuel-filled braking rocket, its 3.7-ton weight dropped to less than 1.5 tons, Spear said.
AP900127-0040 	X	Lewis Mumford, a philosopher, planner, critic and educator who warned of the dehumanizing effect of technology, died in his spartan, functional country home. He was 94. He died on Friday ``of old age'' in his sleep, said his grandson, James Morss. ``He was frail, but there was no sickness.'' Mumford, best known for his writings on cities, culture and architecture, authored more than 30 books, including ``The City in History,'' for which he received the 1961 National Book Award. He was awarded the National Medal of Arts by President Reagan in 1986. Recipients are honored for their lifetime contributions to American arts. The roots of Mumford's philosophy grew from the America of a century ago. He embraced the notion of self-reliance put forth by Whitman and Emerson. He also was inspired by Melville and Thoreau, who stressed the virtues of humanism and a personalized society. ``The test of maturity, for nations as well as individuals, is not the increase in power,'' he said near the end of his life, ``but the increase of self-understanding, self-control, self-direction and self-transcendence. For in a mature society, man himself, and not his machines or his organizations, is the chief work of art.'' Mumford urged people to turn away from faceless technology and return to human feelings and moral values. He vehemently denied accusations that he saw science as evil and wanted to destroy machinery with the hope of bringing back a pre-industrial society. What he feared, he said, was science without conscience and ``a dominant minority'' of those people who had mastered high technology holding power over others as a result. The illegitimate son of a businessman, Mumford was born in New York City on Oct. 19, 1895, and grew up on Manhattan's West Side. He attended night classes at City College for five years, but failing health prevented him from completing his degree. Instead, he took graduate courses at Columbia University and at the New School for Social Research. It was then he discovered the works of Sir Patrick Geddes, a Scottish town planner whose influence he called the most important in his life. After serving as a naval radio technician in World War I, Mumford became associate editor of The Dial magazine. His essays on housing and urban matters led him to become acting editor of The Sociological Review. Mumford was co-founder of the Regional Planning Association of America and served on the staff of the New York Housing and Regional Planning Commission. In the 1930s, he began weekly art columns and monthly architecture critiques for The New Yorker. From 1934 to 1951, he published four books that became known as the ``Renewal of Life'' series. They made his international reputation and landed him on Time magazine's cover. The volumes _ ``Technics and Civilization,'' ``The Culture of Cities,'' ``The Condition of Man,'' and the ``Conduct of Life'' _ established Mumford as a first-rate thinker. Visiting professorships at MIT, Dartmouth, Stanford and the University of Pennsylvania followed. Among honors bestowed upon him were the President's Medal of Freedom in 1964, the Gold Medal of the Town Planning Institute, the Emerson-Thoreau Medal of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Leonardo da Vinci Medal of the Society for the History of Technology and an honorary knighthood of the Order of the British Empire. He is survived by his wife, Sophia; his daughter, Alison Mumford Morss, and two grandchildren, James and Elizabeth.
AP900825-0159 	X	Stock prices rose today in what analysts described as a technical rebound from the market's free-fall slide of the past several weeks. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials, down 173.02 points over the past three sessions, recovered 30.94 to 2,514.36 by 3 p.m. on Wall Street. Gainers outnumbered losers by about 8 to 7 in nationwide trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed issues, with 821 up, 720 down and 444 unchanged. Analysts said buyers were encouraged by hopes that the markets had gone too far in their appraisal of the potential calamities resulting from the showdown in the Middle East. But by near-unanimous agreement the mood in the marketplace remained cautious and touchy. It will take months, economists observe, to gauge the effects on business aactivity of the upsurge in oil prices and interest rates that followed Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait. Even without that disruptive influence, the domestic economy was widely believed to have been verging on a recession as it began the second half of 1990. Among actively traded blue chips, General Electric rose 1&lsqb; to 59|; International Business Machines 1&rsqb; to 98\; Boeing 2} to 45\, and American Telephone & Telegraph } to 31\. Federal National Mortgage gained 1} to 28&rsqb;. The stock traded as low as 24~ Thursday before the company announced that it had earmarked as much as $500 million for buybacks of its common shares and warrants. The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose 1.07 to 169.95. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index was down 1.14 at 314.71. Volume on the Big Board came to 169.08 million shares with an hour to go.
AP900813-0090 	X	Daily massage can speed up the growth of premature babies who were exposed to cocaine in the womb, a study says. As a result, the babies were able to leave the hospital about four days earlier on average than non-massaged premature infants, researcher Tiffany Field said Monday. Faster-growing babies also become more responsive, which promotes interaction with parents, she said. Other research shows that parental involvement helps a child's development in the first year of life, she said. Fetuses are exposed to cocaine when a pregnant woman uses the drug. Such use raises the risk of premature birth. Field is a professor of pediatrics, psychology and psychiatry at the University of Miami Medical School. She reported preliminary results from the study at the annual meeting of the American Psychological Association, and discussed it in a later interview. The meeting concludes Tuesday. The study, still in progress, has so far produced data on 16 infants. They were born about 10 weeks before their due dates, weighing about 2.6 pounds. They had to stay 20 days to 30 days in a neonatal intensive care unit. Normally, such children then require about 20 days in the hospital simply to gain enough weight to be discharged, Field said. The massage program took place during this latter period. Infants were massaged with firmness, Field said. ``They love it when you give them a little pressure,'' she said. The routine included 10 seconds of working over the top of the head and down to the neck, and then 10 seconds going the other way, she said. Also massaged were the neck and shoulders, back, legs and arms. The chest and abdomen were avoided because the infants obviously did not like being touched there, perhaps associating it with painful medical procedures, Field said. After five minutes of massage, the babies' arms and legs were moved about for five minutes, and then came five more minutes of massage. The 15-minute sessions were done three times a day for 10 days. The massaged babies gained 28 percent more weight per day after the treatment than a comparison group of 16 premature infants who had also been exposed to cocaine, but who were not massaged, Field said. The difference appeared around the sixth day of the treatment and continued for at least a few days after it ended, when researchers stopped keeping track, Field said. Nobody knows why massage spurs growth, but perhaps it stimulates release of hormones that aid absorption of food, she said. Prior studies of premature babies have shown simply holding or paying attention to them did not cause them to gain weight, Field said. The massage treatment looks promising, said a prominent pediatric researcher, Dr. T. Berry Brazelton of Cambridge, Mass. But he cautioned that ``it has to be done with sensitivity to the baby's condition and responses.'' The massager must ease up in response to signals from the infant, he said. Massage had already been shown to speed up the growth of premature infants not exposed to cocaine, Field said. In one study, a 10-day course of daily massage spurred weight gain by 47 percent. The massaged infants were able to leave the hospital six days sooner, saving substantial sums of money in health care costs, Field said. About 10 percent of births in the United States are premature, amounting to 350,000 a year, according to the March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation. Most premature infants weigh less than 5.5 pounds at birth. About 15 percent to 20 percent of premature infants die in the first month after birth.
AP881004-0099 	X	Democrat Michael Dukakis said today he was gaining ground on George Bush whom he called a failure as vice president. Republican Bush proposed a $100 million umbrella organization to encourage volunteerism, saying, ``I want our affluent to help our poor.'' While the two White House contenders campaigned in critical states _ Dukakis in Illinois and Bush in California _ the vice presidential candidates devoted their time to preparing for Wednesday night's debate. Republican Dan Quayle, who has studied at an undisclosed location in Washington, D.C., was leaving today for Omaha, Neb., for the debate, as was Democrat Lloyd Bentsen, who did his final preparations in Austin, Texas. Dukakis, at Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill., said Bush had failed in five missions: as part of an administration effort to increase U.S. sales in Japan, as head of task forces on regulatory reform, drug interdiction and international terrorism, and in an effort to recommend banking reforms. ``Mr. Bush was given five important missions by this administration and he failed every one. And that was before they asked him to pick a running mate in this election,'' Dukakis said. The Massachusetts governor, slightly behind Bush in recent polls, said he was ``beginning to turn this race around.'' He said the final weeks would be ``tough and competitive.'' Bush, in Sacramento, Calif., proposed creation of ``Youth Engaged in Service to America,'' an organization chaired by the president that ``will work with existing youth programs and will put an emphasis on programs that are started in our schools.'' The organization might develop some new volunteer programs but mostly would work in partnership with programs already under way, such as Peace Corps, the California Conservation Corps and others, said Bush campaign adviser Loret Ruppe, director of the Peace Corps. Bush said, ``I want our affluent to help our poor. I want our young to help our elderly. ... I want the young men and women of our tree-lined suburbs to get on a bus, or the subway, or the metro, and go into the cities where the want is.'' On Monday, Dukakis promised a presidency that would enforce civil rights laws while Bush pledged support for development of a space station in his administration. With the election five weeks away, the Democratic presidential nominee told black supporters on Chicago's South Side Monday night that the nation will be deciding between ``two different futures, two different roads to travel.'' And the choice of the GOP nominee will lead to an ``America of privilege _ an America where the very rich get even richer and the rest of us just get by. This is George Bush's America,'' Dukakis said. The vice president, who earlier Monday welcomed the return of the space shuttle Discovery and its five-man crew, told a rally in Redding, Calif., that he is committed to the creation of an operational space station by 1996. ``This goal is achievable, sensible ... and we will meet that goal,'' Bush said. The two candidates vowed to hold their second presidential debate either Oct. 13 or 14, despite the League of Women Voters' withdrawal of its sponsorship. The date will be determined by the length of the American League baseball playoffs. In announcing the decision, League President Nancy M. Neuman cited the campaigns' control of debate format and other details that would squelch any spontaneity. ``We have no intention of becoming an accessory to the hoodwinking of the American public,'' she said. The bipartisan Commission on Presidential Debates, sponsors of the first presidential debate and the vice presidential encounter, quickly stepped in and agreed to take over sponsorship. Janet Brown, executive director of the commission, said the group hopes to keep the debate in Los Angeles and was seeking help from local groups to finance preparations, which the League had estimated at $500,000. Dukakis, in a rare appearance in the predominantly black Chicago neighborhood, paid tribute to late Mayor Harold Washington and the Democrat nominee's former rival for the nomination, Jesse Jackson. Jackson is a ``great son of Chicago'' whose ``sun still shines brightly over all of America,'' Dukakis told the audience. The candidate pledged that his administration would enforce civil rights laws, provide same-day voter registration and select judges committed to equality. ``We're going to aim high and enforce the civil rights laws of this country, not veto them; we're going to have a Justice Department that will inspire us, not embarrass us; and we're going to have an attorney general who understands what the word justice means,'' Dukakis said. Earlier in the day, the Massachusetts governor stopped in Dearborn Heights, Mich., where he spoke to students about drug use and helped destroy about $100,000 worth of marijuana, cocaine and heroin by throwing it into a county incinerator. At a rally in Hartford, Conn., Dukakis responded to Bush's charge that the Democratic nominee is a big-spending liberal. ``The solutions we're proposing are not big-money solutions or big-government solutions,'' Dukakis said. ``And unlike Mr. Bush's tired old ideas, they won't leave America running in place. They'll make America the most powerful and productive country on earth.'' Meanwhile, the Democrat's campaign introduced two new ads following the recent theme of ``The Packaging of George Bush.'' The ads, which show campaign advisers sitting around a table, deal with the Reagan administration's environmental record and Bush's dealings with Panamanian ruler Manuel Antonio Noriega.
AP881108-0180 	X	Charles S. Robb, a former governor and son-in-law of President Lyndon Johnson, defeated a longshot GOP opponent Tuesday to become Virginia's first Democrat elected to the Senate since 1966. Republican George Bush overwhelmed Democrat Michael Dukakis for the state's 12 electoral votes. With 14 percent of the precincts counted, Bush had 166,202 votes or 58 percent and Dukakis had 118,962 votes or 42 percent. With 14 percent of the precincts counted, Robb had 203,493 votes or 73 percent, and Republican Maurice Dawkins had 76,874 votes or 27 percent. Robb and Dawkins, a retired black minister and Washington lobbyist, competed for the seat of Republican Paul S. Trible Jr., who passed up a bid for a second Senate term and plans to run for governor in 1989. Robb outspent Dawkins by about 10 to one. Also on the ballot was a pari-mutuel referendum. Virginia voters narrowly defeated horse-track wagering 10 years ago, but a lottery referendum passed easily last year. Five Democrats and five Republicans were expected to win re-election to the U.S. House.
AP880713-0097 	X	July 8 The Sun, Bremerton, Wash., on the resignation of Attorney General Meese: The last crony is leaving. Months, even years after propriety demanded it, Ed Meese says he'll resign _ sometime. Whatever conservative legacy he left the Justice Department and the courts is overshadowed by his cheapening of the office of attorney general and the chaos now paralyzing Justice. ... Meese has managed to slip through the net in four investigations, because the evidence against him always was circumstantial. It just happened that cronies who did favors for Meese soon ended up with lucrative government contracts, or federal jobs or other special favors. The best Meese's investigators could find was impropriety, not illegality. Yet the attorney general took the lack of charges as a ringing endorsement of his innocence. ... Meese is a deal-maker, a hustler. He never understood that the attorney general can't use his office to create a personal pork barrel. ... Does Meese leave any legacy except sleaze? ... He tried to weaken the Miranda Rule and abortion rights before a Supreme Court that was prepared to do neither. He embarked on an anti-pornography crusade, an odd priority for someone whose mission also includes fighting organized crime. He botched the early stages of the Iran-Contra probe, perhaps deliberately. Yet, Meese has shown one thing. An attorney general's politics are not as important as his credibility, his honesty and his ability to lead. After three years with a laughingstock for a leader, Justice needs an attorney general of high personal reputation. But the department must wait for the next administration to provide one.
AP881217-0051 	X	Student radicals and dissidents today attacked a government party office and staged anti-government demonstrations demanding the arrest of the disgraced former president, Chun Doo-hwan. News reports said about a dozen students briefly occupied an office of President Roh Tae-woo's governing Democratic Justice Party in the southern city of Chonju. ``Arrest Chun Doo-hwan,'' they shouted while attacking the office and destroying windows with rocks and steel pipes, according to the reports. Police, firing tear gas, retook the building in 20 minutes and arrested six students, the reports said. The other students ran away, they said. In southern Seoul, 1,200 radical students and dissidents held an outdoor rally denouncing Roh for blocking public efforts to divulge more details of misdeeds committed during Chun's administration. They dispersed voluntarily after a two-mile march down a main street. About 4,000 riot police were posted, but no clashes were reported. In the southern city of Kwangju, 300 people, mostly students, marched peacefully through downtown streets, shouting slogans demanding Chun's arrest, the South Korean news agency Yonhap said. They dispersed in two hours, it said. Chun, who left office in February, went into self-imposed rural exile last month after apologizing to the nation for corruption and other scandals involving his seven-year authoritarian rule. Chun denied personal wrongdoing, but some of his family members have been arrested for taking bribes or embezzeling official funds.
AP880810-0119 	X	Republican platform writers agreed today to keep Michael Dukakis' name out of their party document with the hope that after the Nov. 8 election the Democratic nominee ``will fade into oblivion.'' Nebraska Gov. Kay Orr opened the platform hearing by asking the delegates not to refer to Dukakis by name in the document. Orr, the committee chairman, said past GOP platforms avoided direct references to the Democrats' nominee. ``That's a very good idea since obviously after November 1988 Governor Dukakis will fade into oblivion,'' said New Hampshire Gov. John Sununu. ``We don't want anyone to have to refer to an encyclopedia to figure out what we have to say.'' The Democratic platform does not mention George Bush or Ronald Reagan by name. Sen. Bob Kasten of Wisconsin, a co-chairman of the committee, told reporters that none of the subcommittee revisions was ``giving anyone major heartburn.'' Kasten said the panel would seek to finish drafting the platform Thursday, a day ahead of schedule. The Republicans also released what they said was a GOP staff estimate of how much implicit promises in the Democratic platform will wind up costing taxpayers: $43.1 billion in 1989 alone. The full 106-member Republican Platform Committee today began reviewing the document anew line by line, after seven subcommittees spent Tuesday putting their imprint on 158 pages of staff-produced working papers. That draft is largely a distillation of policies from the 1984 GOP platform and stands that Bush has staked out on such issues as child care and education. It includes new planks on AIDS and the homeless, as well as the GOP's hard and fast line against abortion and higher taxes. Orr said the subcommittees were not making major changes, but emphasized, ``Until we're done on Friday, it's not a done deal, It's not over with.'' The subcommittees, taking advice from such Bush campaign emissaries as former Texas Sen. John Tower, resisted most moves to push the platform to the left or right. The defense subcommittee called for ``rapid and certain deployment of SDI as technology permits.'' The original draft, echoing Bush campaign language, had just spoken of deployment ``as soon as possible.'' In the family subcommittee, Lynn Glaze, a Delaware delegate, was rebuffed three times when she sought to soften the anti-abortion language. Her motions were tabled without discussion, as was her call for support of the Equal Rights Amendment. Bunny Chambers, a member of the conservative Eagle Forum from Oklahoma City who moved to table Glaze's amendments, said, ``I felt like we'd discussed enough (in the past). I didn't want to spend all the time on it.'' The family subcommittee also killed a plank on the special needs of ``little persons'' _ dwarfs. Committee members expressed confusion about the term `little persons'' and what the plank was doing in the draft. On AIDS, not addressed in 1984, the draft promises to ``not only marshal our scientific resources against AIDS, but ... protect those who do not have the disease.'' It is silent on the civil rights legislation for AIDS victims recommended by a presidential commission. The family subcommittee did amend the AIDS plank to say victims ``should be encouraged to seek early diagnosis and to remain on the job or in school as long as they are functionally able.'' The defense subcommittee balked at an amendment by its co-chairman, Angela ``Bay'' Buchanan, to declare a goal of U.S. ``space dominance.'' Buchanan, the former U.S. treasurer from Irvine, Calif., said she was satisfied with compromise language that space must be kept free and secure for all nations. Gone from the draft documents was the 1984 GOP declaration that ``we shall keep the peace by keeping our country stronger than any potential adversary.'' On taxes, the draft says, ``Republicans unequivocally reiterate the no-tax pledge we have proudly kept.'' Like the 1984 platform, the draft calls for the appointment of judges ``who respect traditional family values and the sanctity of human life.'' Sen. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. of Connecticut skipped Tuesday's session to return to Washington, but planned to be back today to wage his uphill battle for liberal amendments. The draft documents back a line-item veto, a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution and ``a flexible freeze on current government spending.'' They endorse a child-care tax credit for families of modest means. Bush recently proposed a $1,000-per-child credit for families with incomes up to $20,000. The draft speaks of the importance of imparting to children ``the Judeo-Christian values of Western civilization and our ideals of liberty.'' The family subcommittee rejected an amendment to change ``Judeo-Christian'' to ``traditional.'' On abortion, the draft declares ``the unborn child has a fundamental individual right to life which cannot be infringed,'' and calls again for a constitutional amendment to ban abortion. It says, ``Republicans deplore the apartheid system of South Africa,'' but warns against economic pressures that harm black workers and entrepreneurs there. The foreign policy panel added a plank declaring that, ``Republicans are strongly committed to obtaining the freedom of all Americans held captive by terrorist elements in the Middle East.''
AP880511-0307 	X	An outside review of the deadly 1984 gas leak at a Bhopal, India plant was intended to objectively assesses the cause of the disaster, Union Carbide Corp. says, although the resulting report provides little new information on the incident. The report released Tuesday by the firm Arthur D. Little Inc. supported Carbide's claims that sabotage by a disgruntled employee caused the disaster. It also refuted as ``physically impossible'' the Indian government's contention that the disaster stemmed from negligence. ``We wanted the world to know that somebody that had a reputation that was worldwide and sterling...would look at things critically,'' said Bud Holman, a Carbide attorney. The report did not provide a motive for sabotage or name the worker believed responsible. But Holman said the company and the Indian government knew the worker's identity, and it eventually would be revealed in court. He said the worker wanted to punish a superior who had demoted him. Ashok Kalelkare, a senior vice president of Arthur D. Little, based in Cambridge, Mass., presented the findings Tuesday to a London symposium sponsored by the Institute of Chemical Engineers of the United Kingdom. An Indian government attorney involved in the case on declined comment on the report today, saying it would be ``improper while we're in litigation.'' He insisted on anonymity. In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Carbide closed up 75 cents a share to $23.87{ on Tuesday. At least 2,850 people were killed and 20,000 injured when methyl isocyanate gas leaked from a holding tank at Union Carbide India Ltd.'s Bhopal plant on Dec. 3, 1984. More than 500,000 people have filed claims in the case and the Indian government filed criminal charges against Carbide in December. The Arthur D. Little report theorized that a worker entered the plant's storage area during a shift change the night of Dec. 2, 1984, and hooked a rubber hose to the methyl isocyanate tank with the intention of ruining the tank's contents. The chemical produces a deadly gas when mixed with water. ``The results of this investigation show, with virtual certainty, that the Bhopal incident was caused by the entry of water to the tank through a hose that had been connected directly to the tank,'' the report stated. ``It is equally clear that those most directly involved attempted to obfuscate these events.'' The report was based on interviews with more than 70 former employees of the now-closed plant. Among those interviewed was an unidentified instrument supervisor who told investigators that the day after the disaster he discovered a gauge on the chemical tank had been replaced with a plug. Nearby, he also noticed a length of hose with water running from it, the report said. The report theorized that the gauge was removed, the hose inserted, and the hole filled with a plug once the water had been added to the tank. The Indian government contends that water got into the chemical tank when a worker failed to install a ``slip-blind,'' a device that prevents water from backing up, while cleaning a filter about 400 feet away. But Arthur D. Little's report asserted the theory was implausible for three reasons: the worker's hose pressure wasn't high enough to raise the water to the level of the chemical tank; a safety valve to prevent such a mishap was found in good working order after the accident; and pipes that would have remained filled with water after such an occurrence were dry. The report alleged that workers altered plant logs to hide that they tried to drain the tank after realizing water had been added. The consultant's report was highly critical of the Indian government, saying it stuck to the negligence theory despite evidence to the contrary and hindered Union Carbide's ability to discover what actually happened. The company finally got access to key plant records and through them the names of plant employees when a U.S. magistrate ordered India to produce copies of the documents as part of the civil suit to which it was a party
AP881214-0221 	X	Amid the frozen farm fields of Iowa, Judy Shelly answered a cry for help from a small wooden garage. Huddled inside were a mother and three children. They'd lost almost everything _ including their home. They had blankets, beds, a few sticks of furniture and a hot plate, but no bathroom or refrigerator. No money either. Forced off their farm, abandoned by husband and father, the family was struggling to survive. Their predicament is a sad but increasingly common sign of hard times in the heartland. As farmers lose their land, small-town factories shut their doors and housing costs rise, growing numbers of rural folks are joining the ranks of the nation's homeless. ``Rural homeless people are everywhere around us,'' said Louisa Stark, president of the National Coalition for the Homeless. ``They're living in barns and chicken coops. They're doubled and tripled up with families and friends. They're living under trees or, in some cases, sleeping in caves.'' Garages, too. The Iowa family had rented a nearby house after losing their farm last winter, but when the pipes burst and the landlord couldn't afford repairs, they moved into the garage because it was cheaper to warm with a kerosene heater. Shelly, who works for a farmers-assistance group, helped find them a place to stay. They moved on shortly after. People think rural America ``has been able to stand on its own two feet ever since the Depression,'' Shelly said. ``(They think) somehow they'll get by. They think you have the white picket fence, mom and dad sit down at the table and eat with the kids. That's not the way it is. ``The reality is urban life and rural life are not much different anymore,'' she added. ``We have people going without food. We have people going without heat.'' And people going without roofs over their heads. Up to 3 million Americans are homeless, the national coalition says. Some experts estimate 10 percent to 20 percent are in rural areas, but nobody knows for sure because they aren't as conspicious as people panhandling on city streets or sleeping on grates. ``Everybody calls the rural homeless invisible. In fact, they are,'' said Melanie Roth of the Housing Assistance Council in Washington, D.C., which deals with rural low-income housing needs. ``They don't wander the streets of small-town America,'' said Keith Luebke, co-director of the Welcome Inn Transitional Living Center in Mankato, Minn. ``They leave or they somehow hide themselves or hide their problems. They don't want anyone to know.'' Most of the newest rural homeless are working poor and farm families, says a report by the Institute of Medicine, part of the National Academy of Sciences. Compared with their urban counterparts, the report says, they're younger families dependent on two incomes; typically, one wage-earner loses a job and the remaining income isn't enough to pay the rent. They most often live in counties where employment is dependent on single troubled industries. These people face a Hobson's choice of moving in with friends or relatives _ or pulling up roots and leaving. The institute's report said some rural areas have a five-year waiting list for public housing. Though their numbers are just a fraction of those in the cities, the rural homeless get much less help _ fewer shelters, fewer soup kitchens, less money from charities. ``In short, the faint voice that has recently been given to the homeless in urban America has been denied the homeless of rural America,'' said a national coalition study on such problems in Appalachia and the South. Several studies have examined rural homelessness. Among the findings: _ More than three-quarters of community agencies responding to a Housing Assistance Council survey last year reported increases in rural homeless from 1981-82 to 1986-87. Of those, 38 percent said the increase was significant. _ In Ohio, the proportion of women among the rural homeless was twice that of urban homeless populations, according to a 1985 study. That's partly due to the higher percentage of married people among the rural homeless, 18.5 percent against 6.7 percent married among urban homeless. _ In Minnesota, 36 percent of adults in shelters and transitional living centers had jobs, compared with 24 percent in urban Minneapolis, said a 1988 study by the Minnesota Coalition for the Homeless. _ In Iowa, a study found one of the larger groups in danger of losing homes was farm widows, many of whom live on just a few hundred dollars a month. The count of rural homeless should also include people who live in ramshackle houses or stay with friends and family, a common arrangement among down-and-out farmers, the experts say. It may be 21 people living in one house, nine children and three adults squeezed in a trailer or a family so crowded they sleep in shifts. ``You have people living on top of each other. Those are the hidden homeless,'' said Luebke. ``These people no longer have their own home or apartment. They have a roof over their head, but in real terms they should be considered homeless.'' Living conditions for others are so abysmal that social agencies say it's tantamount to being homeless. ``When people have a home where the roof is constantly leaking and the cold air can come in ... (and) there's no money to fix those things, that's not a home,'' said Norma Dell, director of Bethany House, a Kentucky social service center. Agencies around the country have files on people living in rat-infested shanties, rotting houses without walls or shacks without heat, water or toilets. Others describe a wheelchair-bound man living under a bridge after being evicted, an Indian family sleeping in an old school bus and drawing water from a horse trough, a man who lived in an abandoned refrigerator. Stark said she's heard reports from California of farmworkers living in groves of trees or taking shelter in caves.
AP881017-0276 	X	Insurance officials in California and Illinois have given their approval for Batus Inc. to acquire Farmers Group Inc., the companies said in a joint announcement Monday. The statement said affirmative action was taken by California Insurance Commissioner Roxani Gillespiee and Illinois Insurance Director John Washburn. Batus and Farmers, a California insurance company, announced Aug. 24 that they had entered into an agreement providing for Batus to acquire Farmers at a price of $75 per share in cash, or about $5.2 billion. Arizona, Idaho and Washington ruled favorably on the plan earlier but it still must be accepted by four other states.
AP900222-0227 	X	Stock prices advanced broadly this morning in early, moderate trading after the Tokyo market and other overseas exchanges regained strength. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials gained 7.66 points to 2,591.22 in the first half hour of trading. Advancing issues outnumbered losers by more than 2 to 1 in nationwide trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed issues, with 620 up, 286 down and 467 unchanged. Volume on the Big Board came to 21.87 million shares as of 10 a.m. on Wall Street. On the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the key Nikkei index rose more than 400 points in early trading, but then plunged on a wave of computer-guided selling by foreign institutions. But the Japanese market recovered as investors gradually returned and computerized buy programs kicked in. By the close, the Nikkei index gained 92.51 points, or 0.25 percent, to move to 35,826.84. On Wednesday, the Nikkei plummeted more than 3 percent for its third-worst drop ever. The plunge helped set off a tumble on Wall Street, but the U.S. markets later recovered as institutional investors took advantage of bargains. This morning, the NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks gained 0.30 to 181.37. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index was up 0.63 at 353.58. On Wednesday, the Dow Jones average of 30 industrials closed down 13.29 points to 2,583.56. Declining issues outnumbered advances by about 5 to 3 in nationwide trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed stocks, with 577 up, 963 down and 455 unchanged. Volume on the floor of the Big Board totaled 159.24 million shares, up from 147.30 million in the previous session.
AP901022-0139 	X	The African National Congress recommended Monday that Nelson Mandela meet rival black leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi, a breakthrough that could help ease the violence in black townships. The ANC proposed a meeting between itself and Buthelezi's conservative Inkatha Freedom Party ``in the near future,'' but did not specify a date. The ANC statement said both Mandela and Buthelezi should attend. Buthelezi said he welcomed the offer and was ready to consider a suitable time and place for the talks. Mandela is in Australia and will be traveling throughout Asia until early November. Since his release from prison in February, Mandela has turned down invitations from his old friend Buthelezi despite the ongoing violence between their supporters in the eastern province of Natal and in black areas outside Johannesburg. ANC leaders have harshly briticized Buthelezi and accused him of orchestrating the violence to obtain a meeting with Mandela and enhance his stature. Buthelezi has denied the charge and accused the ANC of trying to destroy all rivals. The ANC was conciliatory in its statement Monday. The group said ``it welcomed the steps being taken jointly by the ANC and the Inkatha Freedom Party'' to stop the violence. The two sides have been holding periodic peace talks, but neither Mandela nor Buthelezi has attended. About 5,000 blacks have died in the ANC-Inkatha power struggle since 1986 in Natal Province. The fighting spread to the Johannesburg area in August and has claimed 800 lives. The ANC and Inkatha, the two largest black opposition movements, both oppose apartheid but differ over tactics and a future South Africa. The socialist-oriented ANC has employed boycotts, strikes, protests and waged an armed struggle, recently suspended, in its battle against the government. Inkatha does not endorse any of those measures and favors capitalism. The ANC draws support across tribal lines, while virtually all Inkatha members are Zulus. The ANC also has opposed Buthelezi's role as leader of the KwaZulu homeland in Natal Province. The ANC considers the 10 black homelands part of the apartheid system. Buthelezi, meanwhile, sees the limited self-government in the homelands as an interim step on the road to black majority rule.
AP881121-0063 	X	Former President Jimmy Carter and three members of a Soviet volunteer organization have agreed to work jointly on housing projects for the needy next summer in Washington state and the Soviet Union. Carter met Sunday with the Soviet delegation at his home in Plains. He is active in Habitat for Humanity, a group that builds homes for the working poor. ``One of the things they (the Russians) wanted to do was housing work for the benefit of low-income people with children, and Habitat fit the bill,'' said Millard Fuller, Habitat's executive director, who also attended the meeting with the Soviets. ``We decided that next summer a group of 10 Soviets will come to Yakima and work with 10 Americans on the Habitat project there for five or six weeks,'' Fuller said. ``Then the group will go to the Soviet Union and work on a similar project there.'' Habitat has conducted home-building projects in more than 300 U.S. cities as well as Canada, Australia and developing nations. The Soviets delagation are members of a private volunteer organization, the Soviet Peace Fund, and were invited to the United States by Ploughshares, a Seattle-based organization. The Soviet delegation included Svetlana Savitskaya, the first woman cosmonaut to walk in space. ``It's very important to look at each other eye to eye,'' said Ms. Savitskaya, who added that the project will help promote peace. ``This will help us to see there are not enemies among us but good friends.'' The project's ultimate goal is to have the Soviets and Americans working side-by-side in developing nations, organizers said, but no decision on that was reached.
AP901120-0204 	X	If, instead of heading for Las Vegas, a high-roller in 1980 bought a typical acre of U.S. farmland for $750 in hopes of turning a fast buck, the profit would hardly have been the stuff of a gambler's dreams. The speculator could have sold the one acre in 1982 for a record $823. That would have been a profit of less than 5 percent a year. But it would have been a profit. And there are more losers than winners at roulette tables. After the U.S. farmland boom of the 1970s peaked in 1982, however, it was downhill for years, with the bottom in 1987 at an average of $599 per acre. By 1990, according to the Agriculture Department, farm real estate prices nationally - including buildings as well as land - had recovered to around $693 per acre. These are only averages. No doubt there have been some speculative land deals that have resulted in somebody getting rich. But did speculators help run up farmland prices in the 1970s so much that the bottom was bound to fall out of the market in the 1980s? A USDA analysis says it is doubtful that speculation and easy credit policies led to the farmland bust. There is little doubt, however, that the slide in land prices was a huge factor in the financial crunch that gripped the nation's agriculture in the mid-1980s. Land is the main asset of farmers, and when values crumbled their collateral shrank, and so did their borrowing power. ``Many market observers said (farmland) prices reflected a speculative mania rather than expected farm income,'' the report said. ``Speculative manias, often called bubbles, occur when investors buy an asset intending only to sell it later at a higher price, rather than using it to generate income over a number of years.'' The report was written by Fred Kuchler and Abebayehu Tegene of the department's Economic Research Service and is in the November issue of Agricultural Outlook magazine. ``While there is some circumstantial evidence of a speculative bubble in the 1970s, the long-run stable relation between farmland prices and returns (as measured by cash rental rates) leads to the conclusion that bubbles have most likely not occurred in farmland markets,'' the report said. ``Rather,'' it added, ``expectations about future farm incomes and other economic factors have determined, and continue to determine, farmland prices.'' The report also said that many analysts believe ``aggressive lending policies touched off a speculative bubble in farmland prices'' during the 1970s. ``That conclusion appears to be incorrect, but the evidence does not rule out the possibility that aggressive lending, reflected in lower mortgage rates or greater volumes of credit, could have caused investors to re-evaluate their expectations,'' the report said. ``The lenders probably made farmland a much better investment.'' Recently the American Bankers Association released an independent study that said a liberalization of Farm Credit System lending policies nearly 20 years ago led to the boom-and-bust era in agriculture. According to the study, the cooperatively owned Farm Credit System - which includes federal land bank associations - was authorized by Congress in 1971 to raise its collateral limit for farm real estate loans. That meant larger loans to buy land. The bankers' study said the liberalization ``unleased a boom in land prices in rural America that saw the inflation-adjusted value of farmland nearly double from 1971 to 1980.'' But the bankers' study said the boom was unsustainable and that by the mid-1980s the average real value of farmland, after allowing for inflation, was almost down to its 1971 level. The USDA reports it is impossible to prove conclusively that speculative bubbles exist or do not exist. One reason is that economists do not agree exactly on how much income should be attributed to land. ``If there was no speculative bubble, the runup in farmland prices during the 1970s must reflect big shifts in expectations,'' the report said. ``Farmland investors might have believed that farm income would rise at a faster pace or that income would continue to rise at the rate of the 1950s and 1960s.''
AP881028-0248 	X	Just eight weeks after Florida's $55.1 million jackpot eclipsed lottomania in California, the Golden State is back with a $55 million-plus jackpot that will be North America's richest ever. Lottery officials and merchants said ticket sales for Saturday's drawing already were double what an average Thursday would rake in. The official estimate of ``over $55 million'' for the drawing is conservative, based on previous betting patterns in the two-year history of California's computerized lottery game, said lottery spokesman Bob Taylor. ``Over $55 million'' could mean several million dollars over, officials acknowledge. It all depends on how wildly Californians react to the 1-in-14-million chance of winning the jackpot, which would be paid in an annuity of at least $2.75 million before taxes for 20 years, for the cost of a $1 lotto ticket. The size of the jackpot depends on sales and jackpot rollovers, which fuel each other to produce the heavy gambling periods dubbed lottomania. When no one picks all six winning numbers out of a choice of 49 numbers, the jackpot is rolled over, or added, to the top prize for the next twice-weekly drawing. Four rollovers, including a $33.4 million jackpot Wednesday night, produced the current record prize estimate. The exact size of the jackpot depends on how many tickets are sold. Twenty cents of every $1 ticket feeds the jackpot. The California lottery produced a $51.4 million jackpot, North America's largest at the time, in June. It was evenly split between two players, an aircraft mechanic and a supermarket clerk. That record was eclipsed Sept. 3 by a $55.1 million prize in Florida that went to a 63-year-old real estate broker.
AP901010-0204 	X	Stock prices sagged again today, extending Tuesday's sharp decline. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials, down 78.22 points on Tuesday, was off 6.18 at 2,439.36 by 3 p.m. today on Wall Street. Losers outnumbered gainers by almost 5 to 2 in nationwide trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed issues, with 420 up, 1,028 down and 495 unchanged. Analysts said rumors of increasing tensions in the Persian Gulf caused some fresh problems for the market. The atmosphere was already gloomy, they noted, following Tuesday's upsurge in oil prices to above $40 a barrel. Today crude-oil futures for November delivery pushed past $41 a barrel in early trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, then dropped back to the neighborhood of $39.50. Recession worries have intensified of late as analysts continue to cut their earnings estimates for a wide range of companies. Profit reports for the third quarter of the year will reach flood stage over the next couple of weeks. Motorola rose 1&lsqb; to 53~ in active trading after taking a 7-point drop Tuesday, when the company posted a quarterly earnings gain that fell short of expectations. Losers among the blue-chip industrials included Aluminum Co. of America, down 2{ at 57\; American Telephone & Telegraph, down &rsqb; at 31|; General Electric, down | at 52\, and Mobil, down ~ at 58|. The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks dropped .91 to 166.50. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index was down 2.66 at 300.39. Volume on the Big Board came to 133.34 million shares with an hour to go.
AP900423-0150 	X	A flight to Baltimore from San Juan, Puerto Rico, was diverted to Miami after passengers wrongly accused a fellow traveler of carrying a gun, an airline official said Monday. Passengers on American Airlines Flight 704 Sunday night told flight attendants that a man was ``acting a little strange,'' and that he had a gun in his briefcase, said Tim Smith, a spokesman at American's Dallas headquarters. ``The flight attendants then alerted the plane's captain, who decided to divert the plane to Miami'' shortly before 9 p.m., Smith said. ``The man was met by Dade County authorities who searched him and his baggage and found nothing.'' The man, who was not identified, spent the night in Miami and was rescheduled onto a flight to Baltimore Monday morning, Smith said. The airplane refueled during a 30-minute stop in Miami, then continued on to Baltimore's Washington International Airport, he said.
AP900215-0151 	X	President Bush complained testily Thursday about news accounts which he said portrayed him as deceptive, declaring he would hold fewer news conferences and initiate a ``new approach'' toward reporters. ``From now on, it's going to be a little different. ... So we've got a new relationship,'' Bush told reporters traveling with him aboard Air Force One to the four-nation Colombia drug summit. ``It will be pleasant. It will be fun. But it's different,'' said the president, who has averaged one question and answer session with reporters each week since taking office 13 months ago. Later, Bush's press secretary, Marlin Fitzwater, said the president was ``just kidding'' in asserting that he would have fewer news conferences and in declining comment on a series of questions. ``He was having fun,'' Fitzwater said. The president, who apparently read a wire service account of his testy mood on the plane, protested to reporters later: ``I'm not fuming.'' Bush's pique apparently was triggered by an ABC-TV report Wednesday night recapping instances in which Bush's words were belied by subsequent events. The president was criticized on the same score in a Feb. 26 article in The New Republic entitled, ``The Deceiving Line.'' Most recently Bush told a news conference on Monday that it wasn't time yet for a conference among the United States, the Soviet Union, Britain and France on the future status of Germany. ``Not at this juncture,'' he told the news conference. Yet, the next day, a major agreement was announced in Ottawa by Secretary of State James A. Baker III on a German reunification push that would include a summit among the four powers that vanquished Germany in World War II. ``When I told you ... that I didn't think there'd be a deal and there shortly was a deal, then I'm hit for deceiving you,'' Bush groused Thursday. Bush, a onetime CIA director, has conducted much of his foreign policy in secrecy. Two missions to China by national security adviser Brent Scowcroft came despite a Bush announcement in the aftermath of the Tiananmen Square crackdown that he was barring high-level exchanges between the two countries. The president later insisted that Scowcroft's trips to Beijing were ``visits'' and not ``exchanges,'' and thus not covered by the Bush edict. Bush, who usually maintains a bantering relationship with reporters, said, ``I think we've had too many press conferences. It overdoes it. It's overexposure.'' By answering few questions directly, he said, ``I'm not going to be burned for holding out or doing something deceptive.'' The president, who slept the night before on Air Force One so he would be well-rested for Thursday's pre-dawn flight here, even gave a prickly response when asked if he had gotten a good night's sleep. ``I had a very good night's sleep. I can't get into the details of that because some will say it's too much sleep, some will say it's too little. ...,'' he said. Bush parried a series of questions from reporters, most of them dealing with the drug summit. ``I'm not going to discuss what I'm going to bring up,'' Bush said when asked about his agenda for the day's conference in Cartagena with the presidents of Colombia, Peru and Bolivia. ``I'm not going to discuss whether there's any surprises or not. This is a new thing. This is a new approach.'' He then said his non-answers were ``a trial run'' for later dealings with the media. In fact, Bush, who answers reporters questions about once a week, planned to finish his day in Colombia with yet another news conference. Bush's comments with reporters came shortly before his jet touched down here, where a U.S. press center was set up at the airport. Bush flew by helicopter the 60 miles to Cartagena and was returning here before flying home to Washington. Asked about an NBC-TV report that Colombian President Virgilio Barco had made a deal with some drug lords in his country not to extradite them to the United States if they turned over drug labs, Bush snapped: ``I have no comment whatsoever on that. I have no comment on whether I know about it or not. I can't comment on whether it's true or not.'' Bush did not mention which particular news reports had irked him the most. However, Thursday's editions of the Washington Post had a story on what it called ``the debate between President Bush and the press over secrecy and deception.'' And ABC-TV had a news report on Wednesday night by White House correspondent Brit Hume on the same subject. Hume was one of several reporters invited to a recent off the record lunch at the White House with Bush, at which the subject reportedly came up. News accounts said that Bush told the reporters at the lunch that he had undertaken no further secret diplomatic missions _ like Scowcroft's clandestine visits to China. Then, the next day, it was disclosed that Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger had gone on a secret mission to London to notify U.S. allies of Bush's latest plan to reduce troops in Europe. Bush also gave what some have seen as misleading comments on his surprise seaside summit at Malta in December with Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev. The president in September had said that there were no plans for a superpower summit before 1990, but he later revealed that the session had been arranged as early as last July.
AP900414-0093 	X	NASA opened Discovery's payload bay doors Saturday to remove the Hubble Space Telescope's batteries for recharging and to replace a faulty part in preparation for an April 25 launch. Technicians took out a faulty auxiliary power unit responsible for grounding the shuttle last week. A new unit was being installed to be tested Sunday and fired up briefly later this week. ``We haven't run into any problem,'' said Lisa Malone, a spokeswoman for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. ``We're looking good for the 25th.'' Hubble's six nickel-hydrogen batteries will be recharged for 5{ days in a laboratory at the Vehicle Assembly Building. NASA decided to take the batteries there because they can be recharged at a cooler temperature and thus retain more power. ``We will have a higher capacity in them than we would have had we been recharging at the pad,'' said Fred Wojtalik, a NASA project manager. ``This will make the opportunities for additional launch days a lot easier for us.'' The batteries will power Hubble from the time it is disconnected from the shuttle's power system during deployment until its energy-collecting solar panels are unfurled. Discovery was poised for launch Tuesday, but the mission was scrubbed four minutes before liftoff when the auxiliary power unit failed. NASA was not sure how long it would take to replace the 88-pound unit because the procedure had never been performed before at the launch pad. The work went smoothly, Malone said. The defective power unit was returned to the manufacturer, Sunstrand Corp. of Rockford, Ill., for testing. The shuttle's three auxiliary power units pressurize the hydraulic system, which is used to move wing and rudder surfaces and in the ship's braking and steering systems. NASA planned to close Discovery's payload bay doors Sunday as soon as the lengthy process of removing the batteries was completed. The chamber will remain sealed to reduce the risk of getting too much dust on the telescope's 94-inch mirror, the finest ever made, until the batteries are returned next weekend. The $1.5 billion telescope is NASA's most expensive and complex payload. Once it is in orbit above Earth's distorting atmosphere, it will be able to detect objects 50 times fainter and with 10 times greater clarity than the best observatory on the ground. Astronomers expect to study stars and galaxies so distant that their light has been traveling toward Earth for 14 billion years, close to the beginning of the universe.
AP900827-0058 	X	East Germany's former Communist economics czar, who is accused of corruption, has been released from prison because of failing health, officials said Monday. Doctors agreed that Guenter Mittag, 63, was too ill to remain in jail where he was being held in preventive custody, said East German justice officials who asked not to be identified. Mittag was responsible for economic policy in the Communist government that was ousted during last fall's pro-democracy movement. He had been in prison since December and is accused of corruption and sabotaging the country's economy. Other top officials under investigation by the new democratically elected government include former Communist leader Erich Honecker and longtime security chief Erich Mielke. Mittag suffers from acute diabetes, said East German justice officials. He is considered to be the most ill of all the former Communist party leaders under investigation.
AP900511-0067 	X	The dollar continued its slide against the Japanese yen in European trading this morning, but gained ground from Thursday's lower levels against several European currencies. Spot gold prices were driven sharply lower under the pressure of Japanese selling. The dollar closed in Tokyo at 154.15 yen, down 2.60 yen from Thursday's close. Later in London, it was quoted at 153.99 yen. Other dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Thursday: _1.6342 West German marks, down from 1.6368 _1.3995 Swiss francs, up from 1.3950 _5.5285 French francs, up from 5.5235 _1.8410 Dutch guilders, up from 1.8407 _1,206.00 Italian lire, up from 1,205.75 _$1.1770 Canadian, up from $1.1650 The British pound fell to $1.6728 from $1.6770 late Thursday. Some market players remained on the sidelines awaiting the U.S. government's release later today of the producer price index and retail sales figures. Concern that the U.S. economy is slowing also helped push the dollar lower, dealers said. Dealers said an overnight decline in the dollar's value against the Swiss franc and West German mark pushed it below a technical floor, resulting in widespread dollar selling. The franc has been rising because of high Swiss interest rates, strong Asian demand and the increasing tendency to view the franc as a ``safe haven'' currency, dealers said. Japan's major securities houses sold the dollar heavily in the morning. After lunch, they were joined by life insurers and other major market players, said John Radinoff, vice president of Goldman Sachs (Japan). ``The yen has been massively oversold, and people have been looking for excuses to sell dollars,'' Radinoff said. ``Over the next couple of days there will be some serious thinking going on over whether this is the start of a new trend or whether the dollar is just testing to find a new base,'' said Mahesh Trivedi, senior corporate dealer at Daiwa (Europe) Bank Ltd. ``We could be just near the beginning of a sharp rise in the yen,'' said Mark Austin, currency analyst at Hong Kong & Shanghai Banking Corp. in London. Spot gold prices in London dropped as low as $367.50 an ounce in London this morning, off from $371.35 an ounce late Thursday. In Zurich, gold opened at $367.60 an ounce, down from $371.25 bid late Thursday. In Hong Kong, gold dropped $3.12 an ounce today, to close at $369.10. Silver bullion rose in London to a late bid price of $5.06 a troy ounce, down from $5.08 bid late Thursday.
AP900523-0016 	X	The only thing undeniable about ``Twin Peaks'' is that the series opened with homecoming queen Laura Palmer's body washing ashore, meticulously wrapped in white plastic tarp. OK, maybe even that's not true. Laura's lookalike cousin also arrived, very much alive, leading at least one TV critic to theorize that Laura Palmer killed Laura Palmer. Or rather, Laura Palmer killed her cousin and now is impersonating her. It's a whodunit gone amok. In ``Twin Peaks,'' we don't even know who's been done. And if you understand the bizarre, quirky, weird, offbeat episodic series brought to television by filmdom's offbeat, weird, quirky and bizarre director David Lynch, please fill the rest of us in. We're hopelessly confused. Tonight's season finale promises to resolve the Palmer murder in a small Northwest lumber town whose occupants are alternately obsessed with doughnuts, coffee, pie, logs, psychic visions, Laura's murder, tape recorders, birds, wife-beating, cocaine, draperies that glide silently and dancing dwarfs who talk backwards. Newsweek was so confused, it ran a chart titled ``The Story So Far (As Near As Anyone Can Figure).'' Los Angeles Times television columnist Howard Rosenberg said he was watching every episode and ``loving it. I think.'' Here's the basic plot, or a reasonable facsimile: Seventeen-year-old Laura Palmer turns up dead. Pie-loving FBI agent Dale Cooper comes to town to help doughnut-loving Sheriff Harry S. Truman solve the murder. Laura may or may not have been a drug dealer, but she most definitely was homecoming queen. Her mother has psychic visions. There is a woman who carries around a log. A one-armed man is ominously referred to. Cooper walks around talking into a tape recorder. Nadine wears an eye patch, lives for noiseless drapes and is married to ``Big Ed'' Hurley, who runs the town gas station. Josie Packard owns the local mill and has the hots for Truman. Everybody is sleeping with everybody else's husband, wife, boyfriend, girlfriend ... well, you get the picture. If you don't, take heart. ``Twin Peaks'' will be back in the fall, ABC announced this week. Oh, goody. That gives us all enough time to get over the motion sickness from trying to figure out this season.
AP901106-0160 	X	Democratic Sen. Paul Simon captured a second term Tuesday, fending off a challenge by Republican Rep. Lynn Martin, whose anti-tax message and late call for limiting the terms of Washington lawmakers failed to dent the popularity of the liberal incumbent.
AP900403-0051 	X	At least five bombs exploded in two cities today, ripping through a government building and the offices of business groups and labor unions. Police said no injuries were reported. The early morning blasts went off simultaneously in Salonica and Athens, the capital. Police said anonymous callers claimed responsibility on behalf of the leftist guerrilla groups May 1 and the Revolutionary Popular Struggle. The groups have asked voters to boycott Sunday's crucial parliamentary elections, citing ``political mockery'' by the leading parties, the Conservatives and the Socialists. The Salonica blasts caused extensive damage at the European Community's northern Greece information center, located on the 6th floor of an office building, and the Industrialists Association of Northern Greece, police said. In Athens, bombs caused minor damage at the National Economy ministry, and buildings housing the General Confederation of Greek Trade Unions and the Federation of Greek Industrialists, they said on condition of anonymity. In the past, the attacks of the terrorist groups have focused on economic targets and none has ever caused fatalities. Both groups say they oppose capitalism, imperialism and the U.S. military presence in Greece. Greeks vote Sunday for the third time in a year, hoping to break a political deadlock that has created compromise governments unable to confront an economy in crisis and growing terrorism. But pollsters predict the election will end like those in June and November 1989, with no party winning enough seats to control the government.
AP900518-0248 	X	Budget negotiators should limit next year's deficit cuts to $50 billion to $60 billion, far less than the law requires, say top fiscal experts for Congress and the Bush administration. The advice, if followed, would make it easier _ and less politically painful _ for participants in the budget summit to reach a deficit-reduction deal for 1991. White House officials and congressional leaders met in the Capitol Thursday for their second round of talks on the $1.2 trillion budget for fiscal 1991, which begins Oct. 1. That spending plan will have to contain an enormous amount of taxes or spending cuts to meet the $64 billion deficit ceiling mandated by the Gramm-Rudman balanced budget law. At Thursday's session, negotiators did not agree on what size of budget-cutting package they need. ``It's bouncing all over the ballpark, $60 billion, $45 billion, $50 billion,'' said Senate Budget Committee Chairman James Sasser, D-Tenn. Their own analysts gave them wildly differing figures about the size of the looming shortfall. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office said next year's budget gap looks like it will be $149 billion to $159 billion. That would mean savings _ either new taxes or spending slashes _ of $85 billion to $95 billion to shrink the shortfall to the Gramm-Rudman target of $64 billion. The White House's Office of Management and Budget projected a shortfall of $123 billion to $138 billion. That would necessitate $59 billion to $74 billion in cuts to hit the Gramm-Rudman ceiling. Neither set of figures includes the cost of rescuing the country's savings and loan institutions, a bailout that could cost the government tens of billions of dollars next year. Yet according to participants, CBO Director Robert Reischauer and OMB Director Richard Darman agreed that savings should be limited to $50 billion to $60 billion. The two budget experts said deficit cuts exceeding that amount could slow an already weak economy. Many economists worry that taking more than that amount away from consumers and government contractors _ in the form of higher taxes or spending cuts _ could prompt a recession. Some negotiators have said that loosening the deficit targets in the Gramm-Rudman law could be one way of keeping automatic cuts from taking effect. Darman also presented negotiators with examples of the spending cuts the Gramm-Rudman law would impose next year if Congress and President Bush fail to enact a deficit-reduction plan. The law would trigger enough cuts to reduce the deficit to $64 billion. According to the budget chief, $30 billion in Gramm-Rudman cuts would mean a 10.4 percent cut in domestic programs and a 7.6 percent reduction in defense spending. A $60 billion cutback would pare domestic programs by 22.2 percent and defense by 15.2 percent. In January, Bush released a proposed budget asserting that only $37 billion in savings would be needed to reach the Gramm-Rudman deficit target. The administration says that since that time, projected costs of aiding the savings and loan industry have grown, interest rates have jumped and tax collections have dropped. Democrats point out that CBO and many private economists have been expecting the higher deficit figures for months. The budget talks are expected to last weeks or months. Both sides are being cautious in suggesting how to cope with a problem that could mean unpopular tax increases or spending reductions in an election year.
AP880301-0101 	X	The government intensified its crackdown on apartheid opponents today by introducing a bill that would outlaw foreign funding of political activity. The legislation, expected to be adopted during Parliament's current session, could cripple the operations of anti-apartheid organizations and churches spared during last week's crackdown on major black opposition groups. Eighteen groups, including the largest anti-apartheid coalition and largest labor federation, were barred from political activity. The new legislation, called ``The Promotion of Orderly Politics Bill,'' would prohibit all organizations from receiving money from abroad for political purposes. Many anti-apartheid, human rights and religious groups receive the bulk of their funds from overseas. The bill would empower the justice minister to declare certain organizations ``restricted'' and to take control of foreign funds sent to them. Money which is deemed to be earmarked for undesirable political activities will ``either be returned to the foreign source or dealt with as determined by the minister,'' the bill says. No court challenge of the restrictions would be allowed. The funding restrictions could be applied to politically related activities of anti-apartheid church organizations, which have vowed to step up protests because of bans on other groups. The South African Council of Churches, which includes most major Protestant denominations and is deeply engaged in civil rights work, has received more than 90 percent of its funds from abroad in recent years. The Roman Catholic Church, which cooperates with the council of churches but receives funds separately, also relies heavily on overseas financing. The Rev. Smangiliso Mkhatshwa, secretary-general of the Southern African Catholic Bishops Conference, said the bill might prove difficult to enforce. ``If the church says supporting the families of detainees and paying legal fees is the work of love, the work of evangelism, it is dificult to see how the government can define for the church what it pastoral and what is political,'' he said. Another section of the bill sets a penalty of two years in jail or a $2,000 fine for anyone who ``says or does anything'' to foment hostility or violence between of different racial, cultural or religious groups. The penalties would apply to anyone who displays any banner, emblem or slogan deemed to convey such hostility, and also to anyone who attends a gathering where such items are displayed. Helen Suzman, veteran Parliament member of the anti-apartheid Progressive Federal Party, said she planned to demand a special debate today on the arrests of prominent clergymen who were protesting the government crackdown. About 25 church leaders, including Anglican Archbishop Desmond Tutu, and more than 100 other protesters were detained briefly Monday after riot policeman blocked them from marching to Parliament with a petition protesting the bans on opposition groups. One of the arrested churchmen, Roman Catholic Archbishop Stephen Naidoo, said in an interview today that he and his colleagues considered it their duty to continue challenging the government. ``The church has got to take a stand on the morality of the use of political power,'' he said. ``If it being used by a minority for the protection of the minority and the oppression of the majority, then the church has got to point this out.'' In another development, government officials warned the country's largest conglomerate, the Anglo American Corp., that they would not tolerate its announced plan to defy the Group Areas Act _ the law that establishes racially segregated living areas. Apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which the nation's 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. The 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services. An executive in Anglo's property division, Graham Lindrop, recently described the act as a sham and said his company was prepared to negotiate leases directly with black tenants renting apartments in the ``white'' Johannesburg neighborhood of Hillbrow. Currently, most of the thousands of blacks living illegally in Hillbrow are forced to have their leases signed by a third party and are vulnerable to exploitation and threats from their landlords. The government has indicated it might allow Hillbrow and a few other areas to become integrated, but it says violations of the Group Areas Act will not be tolerated in the meantime. ``The act still stands until changes are approved by Parliament, Piet Badenhorst, a deputy Cabinet minister, said Monday. ``There will be prosecutions.'' Anglo American's stance was praised by foes of the Group Areas Act and denounced as civil disobedience by the extreme-right Conservative Party.
AP880825-0040 	X	A witch doctor using a monkey as bait captured the companion of a notorious man-eating crocodile, but the 200-year-old killer croc remains at large, a newspaper said today. Bujang Sudin, a 16.4-foot long specimen weighing 397 pounds, was pulled from a river Saturday and sold to a nearby crocodile farm, the New Straits Times said. The newspaper said the witch doctor, Bakir Alias Yeop, lured the crocodile with the monkey and chanted, ``Bujang Sudin come.'' It said two other men then helped haul the crocodile from the river. The report quoted Abang Adris Abang Suhai, a police official in Sarawak state, 540 miles southeast of Kuala Lumpur. Police said the people of Sungai Sadong village in Sarawak had been complaining that a crocodile was troubling them and chasing them as they walked along the river bank. They wanted it caught. Police said they did not know if Bujang Sudin had eaten any humans. The crocodile's companion, however, has, and has been the subject of massive police hunts. He is Bujang Senang, which means ``easy-going bachelor'' in Malay, and he is believed to have been born about 200 years ago. Bujang Sudin means ``bachelor Sudin''. In 1984, Bujang Senang became famous in Malaysia when he killed a 51-year-old man who was in a boat near his home. On Aug. 2, 1982, the crocodile killed an 86-year-old man. Police sharpshooters scoured the rivers in an effort to track down the crocodile. Authorities called witch doctors from as far away as Indonesia to help. Police have stopped looking for Bujang Senang, although there have been occasional reports of him being sighted along various rivers.
AP900219-0165 	X	A chain saw is useful for cleanup and maintenance of your yard and garden, but observe some basics for safe and easy operation. Solo Incorporated, which makes chain saws, has these tips: _ When starting the chain saw, place it on level ground at least 10 feet from the gas can and fueling area. Hold the saw down by placing one foot on the rear handlebar while firmly holding the front handlebar with one hand. If your saw has only a top handlebar, hold it firmly on the ground, pulling up on the starting grip. _ Hold the saw firmly with both hands, maintaining a secure grip. This will help you avoid injury from kickback. Don't overreach or cut above shoulder height, and when cutting logs, only cut one at a time. _ In bucking timber, don't stand directly behind the saw while cutting. Position yourself so you'll be away from the direction of the log roll. Hold the saw on the right side of your body (outside the line of sight across the chain) to minimize chances of injury from an unexpected broken chain or kickback. Examine the log for internal stress _ a bowed appearance is an indication _ and avoid cutting the log on the wrong side, which can result in kickback. _ To avoid kickback while limbing, make sure the log is in a secure position and work on the safest side _ usually uphill and away from the fall of cut limbs. To avoid kickback, make sure the guidebar's tip doesn't come in contact with another branch, the side of a tree, or another object. When limbing, bend your knees slightly and position your right leg behind the front carrying handlebar. The left leg should be forward and away from the guidebar's contact range. Avoid standing on limbs, slash or debris. _ Survey the area before felling a tree. Is the trunk sound or hollow and rotted? What's the wind direction and speed? Which direction is the tree leaning in? Is the tree's crown denser and heavier on one side? When you've determined the answers to these questions, figure your escape route, which should be at a 45-degee angle back from the line of the fall. When you have checked this and cleared the small limbs and branches from the bottom portion of the trunk, you're ready to fell the tree. Stand away from the tree and maintain a balanced stance. Then start by making a careful undercut. This notch, cut to a depth of a quarter-inch, will determine the line of the fall and should be positioned at a right angle to the projected fall. _ Wear protective clothing each time you use a saw. These include goggles or a face mask, snug but comfortable work clothing, cuffless long pants, hearing protection, non-slip safety gloves, and boots with steel toecaps.
AP880401-0087 	X	Pope John Paul II heard confessions from 11 pilgrims and tourists in St. Peter's Basilica today in keeping with a Good Friday tradition he began in 1979. In the evening, the pope planned to carry a wooden cross in a torch-lit procession at the Colosseum recalling Christ's walk to his crucifixion on Calvary Hill in Jerusalem. Several hundred people were waiting when John Paul appeared shortly after noon in St. Peter's Basilica and stepped into one of the hand-carved mahogany confessional booths. Over the next 70 minutes, he heard confessions from a family of three Italians, a 40-year-old Italian steelworker and his 53-year-old friend, a 13-year-old Italian boy studying for his confirmation, a 59-year-old contractor from the Netherlands and his 27-year-old daughter, a 22-year-old American student from California, a Nigerian man studying in England, and a Spanish housewife. At the end of the confessions, the pope blessed the hundreds of people present and asked them to join him in prayer.
AP900524-0078 	X	Most of East Germany's anti-terrorist unit is made up of former members of the ousted Communist regime's feared secret police, a government spokesman said today. The Interior Ministry official said 109 of the 149 members of the special police unit worked previously as agents for the domestic security network known as the Stasi, which has been disbanded. The remaining 40 members came from the East German army, the spokesman said on condition of anonymity. The anti-terrorist unit was formed in December under the reform-oriented caretaker government led by Premier Hans Modrow, who ran East Germany after the Communist hard-liners were ousted in November. Modrow's retooled Communist Party was voted out of power in the nation's first democratic elections on March 18. But the spokesman said none of the former secret police working in the special unit took part in the violent crackdown on demonstrations on Oct. 7-8 that helped fuel the peaceful revolt that ousted the former regime. East Germany is embroiled in debate over what to do with the 80,000 people who worked for the Stasi, which used a network of surveillance and informants to enforce the rule of the former Communist government. Some people have demanded investigations of former Stasi members and the estimated 100,000 informants and those who worked with them. Others argue the network was so vast that the investigation would amount to a witchhunt. But many former bureaucrats, intelligence specialists and law enforcement officials are considered by some people to be too valuable and experienced to be removed from their jobs. Prime Minister Lothar de Maiziere and his Cabinet on Wednesday gave a vote of confidence to the embattled interior minister, Peter-Michael Diestel, who is reluctant to remove former Stasi members from the domestic security network. Many lawmakers, including those from Diestel's own archconservative German Social Union, have demanded the interior minister's resignation because of his propensity for hiring or retaining security specialists from the old regime. Opposition lawmakers say Diestel has more than 2,000 former members of the Stasi on the payroll. Diestel on Wednesday announced the formation of a new committee to oversee the dissolution of the Stasi and to decide what to do with files kept on an estimated 6 million East Germans. The committee includes prominent East German authors Stefan Heym and Walter Janka, church leaders, and members of a former citizens committee set up by the Modrow government.
AP880617-0220 	X	A cold front from Nova Scotia through the mid-Atlantic Coast into the lower Mississippi Valley brought showers and scattered thunderstorms Friday to eastern New England and the mid-Atlantic states. Showers and thunderstorms were spotty elsewhere in the nation. In Des Moines, Iowa, where rainfall was 7{ inches below normal for the year, showers on Friday only brought .01 inches to the area. Showers and thunderstorms developed in parched areas of the Southeast, from western North Carolina into south central Alabama, north central and northeast Texas and the central and southern Gulf Coast. Showers and thunderstorms were scattered in parts of eastern and southern Nevada, southwest Utah, northern Arizona, northwest New Mexico and central Colorado. Temperatures Friday afternoon were in the 80s or 90s across much of the nation. The coolest temperatures were in the 50s and 60s in the Pacific Northwest, the 60s from upper Michigan into northeast Ohio and northwest Pennsylvania, and across much of New England. Temperatures were in the 70s from the upper Mississippi Valley and lower Great Lakes into the central Appalachians. Temperatures were already above 100 degrees across the desert Southwest. The lowest temperature for the nation Friday was 32 at Marquette, Mich. The national weather forecast for Saturday includes scattered showers and thunderstorms in the front range of the Colorado Rockies, the lower Mississippi Valley and parts of the Middle Atlantic and southern Appalachian regions. The rest of the nation will have mostly sunny skies. High temperatures will be in the 80s or 90s across much of the nation; in the 70s from the eastern Great Lakes through New England and along the California coast into the Pacific Northwest, with a few highs in the mid 60s; and, from 100 to 115 across the desert Southwest.
AP901023-0051 	X	The two Koreas met on the soccer field at Olympic Stadium today before more than 80,000 South Koreans, who cheered for both teams and roared approval for unification. South Korea's national team won 1-0, but the score was insignificant beside the diplomatic coup in having two enemy nations share a playing field for only the second time since World War II. The first time was two weeks ago in North Korea, when the northern team beat the south 2-1. Today's crowd was the largest to see a South Korean sports event since the 1988 Olympic Games. At the end of the game, spectators rose for a standing ovation as the athletes jogged around the stadium holding hands and waving. The teams exchanged shirts and waved them in the air. ``Our wish is unification,'' blared a unification song over the loudspeakers. The game, called North-South Unification Soccer, is the high point of a five-day visit by a 78-member North Korean sports delegation, the first from the Communist north to visit the south since the 1945 division of the peninsula. South Korean soccer players visited the north earlier this month. That visit was only the second civilian exchange between the countries in more than four decades. The soccer delegation returns to North Korea on Friday after rounds of sightseeing, dinners and talks on future sports exchanges. South Korean Sports Minister Chung Dong Sung and his North Korean counterpart, Kim Yu Sun, agreed in principle to form a joint single team for the 1992 Olympic Games and other international sports events at talks in Pyongyang. They said further discussions would be held in Seoul. About 5,000 plainclothes police were positioned inside and outside the stadium. Spectators were searched twice and passed through metal detectors to get to their seats. Scalpers were asking $140 for tickets, 10 times the highest face value price. The teams of the rival Koreas entered the stadium side by side, holding hands and waving to thunderous applause. ``This is not purely sports festival,'' Kim said before the match began. ``It should lead to a unification festival.'' ``I hope this soccer match will be a spring board for national unification,'' Chung. Thousands roared in approval and waved colorful pompons. Spectators had been asked not to bring national flags, decorative placards or other paraphernalia which would be identified only with South Korea. A drum and bugle corps played and a gigantic electric signboard flashed the pictures of the ministers. The North Korean team threw half a dozen soccer balls signed with their signatures into the grandstand and screaming spectators raced to retrieve them. During the game, the South Korean crowd cheered wildly for plays by both teams. Radical students, who had said they would root for the North Korean visitors, were not visible. News reports said tickets were sold on an individual basis apparently to avoid large radical or dissident groups sitting together. The sports exchange comes at a time when South Korea and North Korea are seeking to find ways to ease tensions and work together for unification. The prime ministers of both Koreas met for the second time last week in Pyongyang, the north's capital, and have agreed to meet again in Seoul in December. A South Korean musicians' delegation returns Wednesday from a 10-day visit to the north. The Korean peninsula was divided into the Communist North and capitalist South in 1945 at the end of the World War II. The two nations fought a war in the early 1950s and a peace treaty was never signed. The border between the Koreas remains tightly sealed and is one of the most heavily fortified demarcations in the world with more than 1.5 million troops on either side.
AP901004-0179 	X	Archaeologists say the tombs of a mysterious city have yielded the first example of the use on children of an ancient art: carving or engraving teeth as a sign of beauty. Evidence of the engraving was discovered on the teeth of a young boy's skeleton found in the ruins of Montezuma's Balcony, whose civilization was far more advanced than any previously thought to exist in the region. Montezuma's Balcony is 310 miles north of Mexico City outside Ciudad Victoria, capital of northeastern Tamaulipas state. Its name is derived from that of Moctezuma, the Aztec king. Tamaulipas, which spent more than $53,000 on the project, plans to open the site to the public this year. Two canyons and a mountain surround the remote, 12-acre city. It is reached by a steep, rocky road that veers two miles off the main highway to 86 huge slabs of stone named the ``grand stairway.'' Only from the top of the stairway can the remains of more than 100 circular structures be seen, each up to 50 feet in diameter, built from stacked and fitted rocks. More than 100 skeletons were found in basements, along with ceramic fragments, food-grinding utensils, pipes, necklaces, arrowheads, knives and small figurines. The remains of the boy, no older than 5, showed evidence of the carving, called dental mutilation, in his two upper incisors and one lower incisor. ``This is a very rare find,'' said Jesus Narez, director of the Montezuma's Balcony restoration project. ``Until now, we have never detected dental mutilations in a person this young.'' In primitive cultures, dental mutilation is believed to be practiced only on adults. It still is done by some Brazilian, Indonesian and African communities. ``We think it hurts a lot, but . . . peyote, which was commonly used in those times, was probably used to put the child to sleep or dull the pain,'' Narez said. Several other things make Montezuma's Balcony unique, said Narez, curator-investigator of the architectural and cultural collections of northern Mexico at the National Museum of Anthropology and History in Mexico City. He said two groups of people lived there: the Grassiles, thin and fine featured, and the Robustus, big-boned and heavy. Archaeologists chose the names. ``At least for now, we think they lived there together, but radiocarbon testing is being done to determine if they were there at the same time or if one group followed the other,'' Narez said. According to Narez, the city's 3,000 people probably lived between the years 600 and 1400. The elite occupied in the structures and were buried in their basements, and the others lived in wooden huts, he said. References to Montezuma's Balcony appeared in a researcher's report in the mid-1800s, and there was another report in the 1940s. Work on the site began in 1988 and was completed in August. Although their culture was higher than others in the area, the Montezuma's Balcony residents were not as advanced as the Teotihuacans, Zapotecs or Mayas of southern Mexico, who built pyramids and cities in the same period. Northern tribes like the Huastecas the warrior-like Chichimecas, led more primitive, simpler lives than the people of Montezuma's Balcony, Narez said. ``We never thought we'd find these types of buildings so far north,'' he said, adding that huge pieces of rock used to build the Montezuma's Balcony structures were moved with the aid of planks and rope. ``A tribal group with limited organization would not have had sufficient social structure to construct these buildings,'' he said. ``They must have had chiefs, priests, workers and so on.'' He said the site probably was chosen because only the side with the ``grand staircase'' would have to be guarded. Circular structures are typical of Huastecas. Dome-like huts of palm and wood built over basements were believed to lesson the impact of hurricanes and cyclones. Montezuma's Balcony may have been part of a commercial corridor, Narez said, because artifacts like pipes and necklaces show influences of tribes from farther north like the Kaddo, Adena, Apaches and Mississippians. He said how its people became extinct had not been determined. ``We can only guess at this point,'' he said. ``Climate changes may have made it hard to get enough to eat. There may have been frequent fighting with the Chichimecas. There may have been illness.''
AP900205-0083 	X	The senior Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee said today his panel will look into a report that the Pentagon has stockpiled $30 billion worth of unnecessary supplies and equipment. Sen. John Warner of Virginia said that he and Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., the Armed Services Committee chairman, ``will go to work on the problem,'' described in a Senate Budget Committee staff report disclosed over the weekend. Warner, however, said he did not believe the value of unnecessary supplies was as high as $30 billion, saying he thought it was more like $10 billion. He said he based the lower estimate on discussions he had with an assistant secretary of defense, whom he did not identify. The report said that the Defense Department has roughly $100 billion in supplies and equipment stockpiled at various installations and that as much as $30 billion worth of the material is going to waste. ``They have a 13,000-year supply of a particular part for an F-14 fighter aircraft,'' Sen. James Sasser, D-Tenn., chairman of the Budget Committee, said today. ``There are a number of other instances similar to that.'' The Budget Committee's findings were based in part by staff aides' visits to military bases around the country and on interviews with Pentagon officials. The committee staff found, among other things, that there was a glut of supplies and that in many instances equipment was stored in the open and was deteriorating. The report's release came as Congress is beginning to weigh the Bush administration's proposed $295 billion budget for fiscal 1991, which begins next Oct. 1. Appearing on NBC-TV's ``Today,'' show, Sasser said, ``The Pentagon has over $100 billion in spare parts. About $30 billion of those spare parts would be characterized as excess, as not needed.'' The senator said the excess supplies included, among other things, ``a female dress shirt that was prepared and tailored for the military. And this is a result of a study that cost $3.2 million. ``They studied the number of sizes they needed and they concluded 40 sizes of the shirt weren't enough so they went up to 120 sizes,'' Sasser said. ``Now, $3 million of these shirts are still gathering dust in Pentagon warehouses and now they've shifted over to a different shirt style entirely.'' ``So this is an example of the kind of problems we have in Pentagon procurement practices,'' he said. Sasser also said the Defense Department has spent over $700 million in the past six to eight years for additional warehouse space. ``And now with the troops on the verge of returning from Europe, we're going to have just a glut of material that we're going to have to store or deal with some way,'' he said. ``So I predict we're going to see war surplus stores bulging at the seams again just as they did after World War II.''
AP900623-0084 	X	Seven guards at a prison operated by the District of Columbia have been charged with distributing crack, powdered cocaine or marijuana to inmates. The officers were named in six indictments unsealed in U.S. District Court in Alexandria, Va. Their arrests were the result of a six-month undercover FBI investigation in which an inmate was an informant, officials said. Federal prosecutors said Friday that the probe revealed how guards at the Lorton Correctional Complex in Fairfax County, Va., enlisted inmates to make drug sales and arranged payments from outside the facility. They also alleged that the guards took bribes. U.S. Attorney Henry E. Hudson added, however, that the officers were not believed to be involved in a coordinated drug trafficking effort. ``What we have here are a number of isolated instances, all occurring at about the same time,'' he said during a Friday news conference. The investigation uncovered no widespread drug abuse by Lorton officers, said Walter B. Ridley, director of the District of Columbia Department of Corrections. His department runs the complex. The FBI launched the investigation because Lorton inmates appeared to have continual access to illegal drugs, said Thomas E. Duhadway, director of the FBI field office in Washington. Officials said charges against the officers ranged from possession with intent to distribute to introduction of narcotics into a prison. Each faces at least three counts. A civilian also was charged with possession of marijuana and cocaine. All those charged were released on personal recognizance bonds and ordered to appear for arraignments Monday in the Alexandria court.
AP900102-0001 	X	The University of Miami was voted national champion Tuesday in the second narrowest voting since The Associated Press began its postseason college football poll 21 years ago. Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz, whose team finished second, was one of those who had a better choice in mind. ``You can justify why Miami won it. What you can't justify is why we didn't,'' Holtz said a day after the Fighting Irish defeated previously unbeaten and top-ranked Colorado 21-6 in the Orange Bowl. ``We played the toughest schedule, we had the best record ... and we beat the No. 1 team quite decisively,'' Holtz said in an emotional statement likely to renew debate over a playoff system. Miami won its third national championship in the last six years by beating Alabama 33-25 in the Sugar Bowl on Monday night. The Hurricanes and Notre Dame each finished with one loss, but Miami beat the Irish 27-10 on Nov. 25. ``There is no doubt in my mind that we're the best team in the country,'' Miami coach Dennis Erickson said. ``It just happens that it came down to two teams with one loss, and we beat them.'' Miami (11-1) received 39 first-place votes and 1,474 points, with Notre Dame (12-1) getting 19 first-place votes and 1,452 points. The 22-point margin was the second closest since the AP began its postseason poll of sports writers and broadcasters in 1968. The other two first-place votes went to No. 3 Florida State, the only team to beat Miami this season. Colorado fell to No. 4. Miami also was chosen No. 1 in United Press International's coaches' poll, and by USA Today-CNN. Erickson said the close vote will increase calls for a playoff in college football. ``The debate is going to go on until there is one. I really believe down the road there will be a playoff system,'' he said.
AP881007-0152 	X	Leftist rebels claimed responsibility Friday for a rocket-propelled grenade attack on the national legislature, which they called ``the lair of the corrupt.'' Radio Venceremos, the guerrillas' clandestine station, said the Thursday attack, which damaged a wall but caused no injuries, was an operation dubbed ``Armed with bazookas, the people will triumph.'' A projectile fired from a Chinese-made RPG-2 slammed into a wall of the unicameral National Assembly shortly before the day's session began. The impact startled spectators entering the building only a few yards from where the grenade struck. ``This audacious guerrilla action demonstrates the inability of the puppet armed forces, a useless army that is not even capable of guarding utility poles, nor highways, nor its own barracks, nor the National Assembly,'' said the Radio Venceremos broadcast. The broadcast characterized the Assembly as ``the lair of the corrupt and death-squad members.'' A congressional commission and several judges are investigating cases of alleged misuse of public funds by government officials. There have also been allegations right-wing death squads operated out of the Assembly building during the early 1980s, when thousands of suspected leftists were abducted and murdered. A 9-year-old civil war pits the rebels against forces of the U.S.-backed Christian Democratic administration. In 1982, the Assembly was the target of a similar rocket-propelled grenade attack, which also caused no injuries. About 65,000 people have been killed in the war, the majority of them civilians.
AP880714-0260 	X	Stock prices eked out a small gain today as the market absorbed the news of increases in the prime lending rate. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials rose 4.98 to 2,109.35 by 3 p.m. on Wall Street. Gainers slightly outnumbered losers in the overall count of New York Stock Exchange-listed issues, with 708 up, 663 down and 545 unchanged. Many large banks across the country raised their prime lending rates today from 9 to 9.5 percent. Analysts said, however, that those moves were seen largely as a response to recent increases in open-market money rates and did not necessarily have much predictive value for the future course of rates in general. Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, said Wednesday that further increases in rates were not inevitable. In any case, brokers said traders were reluctant to commit themselves extensively either way in advance of Friday's report from the Commerce Department on the nation's trade balance for May. Millipore climbed 1| to 38~ and Worthington Industries, traded in the over-the-counter market, gained 1[ to 24]. The two stocks were added to Standard & Poor's 500-stock composite index, prompting buying by index funds set up to duplicate the performance of the 500. Motorola fell 1} to 50{. The company reported second-quarter earnings of 93 cents a share, up from 62 cents in the comparable period last year but below what some Wall Streeters had been looking for. The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose .21 to 152.48. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index was up .19 at 307.85. Volume on the Big Board came to 147.41 million shares with an hour to go.
AP900910-0236 	X	Woody Allen has added his next three pictures to his exclusive agreement with Orion Pictures Corp. as writer, director and producer. He will star in two of the three. Principal photography was recently completed on Allen's ``Alice,'' which will be released by Orion this fall. Also starring in ``Alice'' are Alec Baldwin, Blythe Danner, Judy Davis, William Hurt and Cybill Shepherd. The fall will also see the start of the last film under the existing agreement. The movie, as yet untitled, stars Allen and Mia Farrow.
AP900804-0086 	X	Financial disclosure forms for this year's House and Senate races show few exceptions to the rule that incumbents have the edge in fund raising, according to a Federal Election Commission analysis released Saturday. Candidates raised $279 million and spent $192 million from January 1989 through the end of June, the analysis says. The candidates still in this year's races reported having $158.8 million available to spend for the November elections. The data confirm the overwhelming advantage of incumbents, particularly in receiving donations from special-interest political action committees. Proposals to significantly restrict or even prohibit PAC donations and other incentives designed to level the playing field for challengers are included in campaign-finance overhaul plans now before Congress. Overall, when races for open seats are excluded, four of every five dollars donated to congressional candidates went to incumbents. The 441 incumbents seeking re-election to House or Senate seats reported raising a total of $196 million in the 18-month period covered by the study, with $74 million of that total coming from PACs. Including primary races there were nearly twice as many challengers _ 793 _ but they raised just $46 million, with $6. 3 million coming from PACs. The total of challenger loans to their own campaigns eclipsed their overall PAC receipts by more than $1 million. But challengers have matched or even surpassed incumbents in raising money in a dozen races, some of them this year's hottest contests. In Oregon, for example, Democratic challenger Mike Kopetski is essentially even with incumbent Republican Rep. Denny Smith in a race considered a toss-up. And in California, actor Ralph Waite, running as a Democrat, reported raising $235,000 as of June 30, more than twice the total raised by incumbent Republican Rep. Alfred McCandless. Two Virginia races have challengers beating their opponents at fund-raising. Democrat James Moran, mayor of the Washington suburb of Alexandria, reported a slight edge over incumbent Republican Stan Parris. Republican Rep. Frank Wolf is expected to keep his seat but is being beaten at the fund-raising game by Lyndon LaRouche, the perennial fringe presidential candidate who is running despite being in a federal prison for a fraud conviction. In Senate races, where six-year terms give plenty of time to raise money, incumbents enjoy huge fund-raising edges. The king of Senate fund-raising is Republican Phil Gramm of Texas, who raised $8.9 million from January 1989 through June alone, and as of June 30 reported $6.2 million in the bank. Democratic challenger Hugh Parmer had raised $1.4 million over the 18 months but had just $20,500 left to enter the final months of the campaign. Not far behind Gramm was New Jersey Democratic Sen. Bill Bradley, who is considered a possible presidential candidate in 1992. Bradley raised $6.7 million over the 18-month period and had $4.3 million in the bank at the end of June. Republican challenger Christine Todd Whitman raised $228,000 and had less than $75,000 on hand. On the House side, members of the Democratic leadership have the biggest advantage. For example, Missouri Rep. Richard Gephardt, the House majority leader and another potential 1992 presidential candidate, raised nearly $1 million over the 18-month period. His Republican challenger, Malcolm Holekamp, collected just $18,436.
AP880809-0244 	X	The dollar advanced strongly on domestic and foreign markets Tuesday after the Federal Reserve surprised traders by increasing its discount rate. Gold prices fell. Republic National Bank of New York quoted a bid of $426.90 a troy ounce as of 4 p.m. EDT, down from $430.20 late Monday. ``Raising rates in the face of a strong dollar probably was not expected,'' said Rick Gomes, a vice president at Irving Trust Co. Traders had not expected the Fed to increase the discount rate, the fee the central bank charges for short-term loans to member banks, because the dollar has been strong, Gomes said. Investors bought the dollar because higher interest rates make it more valuable. Gomes said it was possible the major industrial countries known as the Group of Seven _ the United States is one _ were putting their monetary policies ahead of their currencies. Gomes said there were rumors in the market that West Germany, Japan and other G-7 countries might follow the Fed's lead and increase their own interest rates. But Earl I. Johnson, a vice president at Harris Trust & Co. in Chicago, said foreign interest rate hikes would not stop the dollar's upswing. ``The only thing to put a cap on the dollar would be central bank selling,'' he said. Johnson called the Fed move confirmation of the economy's strength. The Fed's board voted unanimously to increase the disount rate to 6.5 percent from 6 percent. The increase, which took effect immediately, was the first change in the rate since Sept. 4 and put the rate at its highest in more than two years. An increase in the discount rate is the central bank's most direct way of pushing interest rates higher as a curb on economic growth. Economists have been concerned in recent months that continuing economic growth could spark a new round of inflation, partly because of the country's low unemployment, high production levels and the Midwestern drought. In Tokyo, before the Fed announcement, the dollar fell 0.39 Japanese yen to a closing 133.58 yen. In late London trading, after news of the discount rate hike, the dollar rose to 134.25 yen and in New York, it climbed to 135.15 yen from 133.725 yen late Monday. In London, the British pound fell sharply against the dollar. It cost $1.6830 to buy one pound, cheaper than $1.7022 late Monday. Sterling also dropped against the dollar in New York, closing at $1.6840, compared with late Monday's $1.7005. Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Monday's prices, included: 1.9204 West German marks, up from 1.90005; 1.6065 Swiss francs, up from 1.5883; 6.4710 French francs, up from 6.4115; 1,413.475 Italian lire, up from 1,402.00; and 1.2160 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2110. Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Monday's rates, included: 1.5960 Swiss francs, up from 1.5857; 6.4325 French francs, up from 6.3950; 2.1570 Dutch guilders, up from 2.1435; 1,403.50 Italian lire, up from 1,399.50; and 1.2137 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2097. Gold prices fell under increased selling pressure after the discount rate rise attracted investors away from bullion. In London, gold dropped to a late bid of $426 a troy ounce, compared with $432.25 bid late Monday. In Zurich, gold closed at a bid $426 an ounce compared with $432 bid late Monday. Earlier, in Hong Kong, gold fell $3.39 to close at a bid $430.61 an ounce. In New York, gold fell on the Commodity Exchange to $427.40 a troy ounce, down from $430.40 late Monday. Silver slipped in London to a late bid of $6.60 a troy ounce, down from $6.78 late Monday. On New York's Comex, silver fell to $6.630 a troy ounce from late Monday's $6.675.
AP880301-0032 	X	The Defense Ministry claimed 229 Contra rebels and 90 soldiers loyal to the leftist Sandinista government were killed in 4,801 combat engagements in February. A statement issued Monday night said 39 civilians also were killed, 55 injured and 115 kidnapped during the period. The statement said U.S. Air Force planes violated Nicaraguan airspace 13 times. It said other planes, mostly leaving Honduras to resupply the Contra rebels, were detected 35 times in February. The Contra rebels, trained and supplied by the United States, have been fighting to oust the Sandinistas since November 1981.
AP881010-0019 	X	If the presidential race were to go to the candidate with the fastest plane, Republican George Bush would leave Democrat Michael Dukakis in his jetstream. One only need to hear the nickname of the Dukakis plane _ ``Sky Pig'' _ to get the general idea. The name comes partly from the bloated look of the aircraft, a stubby 20-year-old Boeing 737, but mostly the description is based on flying time: It takes the plane seven hours to cross the country _ a 4{-hour flight on most commercial airlines. Method of travel is just one of many contrasts of day-to-day life on the campaign trail for the two men who would be president. Because he's the vice president, Bush gets to draw from a fleet of fast Air Force planes hangared at Andrews Air Force Base near Washington. As any plane the president flies automatically becomes ``Air Force One,'' whatever plane Bush is on becomes ``Air Force Two.'' Usually a converted Boeing 707 or a McDonnell-Douglas DC-9, Bush's planes are fast, meticulously cared for and flown by Air Force pilots. Bush's campaign reimburses taxpayers, in part, for the use of the plane, which is blue and white with the words ``The United States of America'' emblazoned across the sides. Dukakis' plane, chartered from Presidential Airlines, is the same aircraft that Bush's former rival, Kansas Sen. Bob Dole, used. Designed for short-range flying, ``Sky Pig'' cannot cross the country without one or more refueling stops. That was fine for the kind of campaigning Dole did during the GOP primaries _ after all, Dole used to joke that he'd fly over a state and direct the pilot to land wherever he spotted a crowd _ but it poses some scheduling problems in the final weeks of a national campaign. Aides to Dukakis, however, say the candidate is comfortable with the plane, likes the ``Presidential'' designation on the side in green letters, and has no plans to trade it in for a sleeker model.
AP900830-0109 	X	Here is a text of President Bush's news conference Thursday: President Bush: Well I have a brief statement and then I'll be glad to take some questions. The United States is engaged in a collective effort involving the overwhelming majority of the member states of the United Nations to reverse the consequences of Iraqi aggression. And our goals, enshrined in five Security Council resolutions, are clear: the immediate and unconditional withdrawal of Iraqi forces from Kuwait, the restoration of Kuwait's legitimate government, the stability of Saudi Arabia and the Persian Gulf, and the protection of American citizens. What is at stake here is truly significant _ the dependability of America's commitments to its friends and allies, the shape of the post-postwar world, opposition to aggression, the potential domination of the energy resources that are crucial to the entire world. This effort has been truly international from the very outset. Many other countries are contributing. At last count, 22 countries have either responded to a request from Saudi Arabia to help deter further aggression, or are contributing maritime forces pursuant to United Nations Security Council Resolution 665. And still others are providing other forms of financial and material support to these defense efforts or to countries whose economies are affected adversely by sanctions or by higher oil prices. And still others are paying a heavy economic price at home for complying with the United Nations sanctions. It is important that the considerable burden of the effort be shared by those being defended and those who benefit from the free flow of oil. Indeed, anyone with a stake in international order has an interest in ensuring that all of us succeed. The United States has large interests in the balance and has undertaken commitments commensurate with them, and we're more than willing to bear our fair share of the burden. This includes above all the thousands of men and women in our armed forces who are now in the Gulf, but we also expect others to bear their fair share. A number of countries already have announced their willingness to help those adversely affected economically by this endeavor. And it's essential, though, that this be a concerted and coordinated one and that all affected countries participate. It is important to get the priorities right and make sure that those most deserving of assistance receive it and that those most able to contribute do so. And for that reason, I directed an interagency effort to develop a strategy to accomplish this objective. The group's report was presented at yesterday's National Security Council meeting here, and this morning I approved an action plan. And our approach calls for substantial economic assistance to those states _ in particular, I'd single out Turkey and Egypt, who are bearing a great part of the burden of sanctions and higher oil prices. The plan also targets additional countries, including Jordan, the countries of Eastern Europe and others for special assistance. The United States will also seek burdensharing for part of our own effort. At the same time, we will be asking other governments, including Japan, the Republic of Korea, Federal Republic of Germany, Saudi Arabia, the Emirates, free Kuwait, and others to join us in making available financial and, where appropriate, energy resources to countries that have been most affected by the current situation. To facilitate this undertaking, I've asked Secretary of State Jim Baker and the Secretary of the Treasury Nick Brady to lead high-level delegations to the Persian Gulf, Europe and Asia. And I'll be getting directly in touch with the leaders of these countries before Secretaries Baker and Brady arrive to set forth, spell out our general objectives. Let me close by repeating what I said the other day in meeting with the congressional leaders. The basic pieces of our policy are in place. The Iraqi regime stands in opposition to the entire world and to the interests of the Iraqi people. It is truly Iraq against the world. But I want to make this point clear, we have no argument with the people of Iraq. The sanctions are beginning to take hold. And in the meantime, we want to ensure that countries contributing to this unprecedented collective response do not suffer for doing so. And what I've announced today and what I expect will be implemented in the coming days should help create a context in which sanctions against Iraq can be sustained with the intended effect. Another area where there has been unprecedented international solidarity is OPEC's willingness to take up the slack in oil production created by the embargo on Iraqi and Kuwait's oil. In this connection, I met this morning with our energy advisers who are watching the oil production situation very, very closely. And we are pleased with OPEC's decision to help take up the slack in crude oil production. And although we are in what I would see as a transition period, the situation appears manageable. At the present time, we don't anticipate major imbalances in the oil market. But we do have the Strategic Petroleum Reserve tested and available if it is truly needed. And our energy policy is resulting in increased oil production and fuel switching to natural gas and to other fuels. I also repeat my previous request for Americans to conserve and for all parties to act responsibly. Right now, the situation, I would say, is relative stable, and I am very pleased by the coordination that has taken place with so many countries in maintaining adequate fuel levels. MORE
AP901210-0137 	X	Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell will head a delegation of eight Democratic senators that will visit Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Israel later this week. ``It is important for members of Congress to have first-hand knowledge of the serious issues in the Persian Gulf,'' the Maine Democrat said in a statement announcing the seven-day trip. A 19-member House delegation, meanwhile, was leaving Tuesday for a trip to Saudi Arabia that also will include a stop in Israel. That group is led by Intelligence Committee Chairman Anthony Beilenson, D-Calif., and Rep. Henry Hyde, R-Ill., the senior GOP member of the panel. ``Through meetings with our allies, briefings with U.S. military commanders and discussions with our servicemen and women in Saudi Arabia, I am hopeful that this trip will increase our understanding of the issues in the Middle East,'' Mitchell said. Joining him on the Senate delegation leaving Thursday will be: Sens. Max Baucus, D-Mont.; Richard Bryan, D-Nev.; Bob Graham, D-Fla.; Herbert Kohl, D-Wis.; Charles Robb, D-Va.; Richard Shelby, D-Ala.; and Paul Simon, D-Ill. The members of the delegation will travel first to Jiddah, Saudi Arabia, where they are scheduled to meet with King Fahd. After military briefings and meetings with service personnel in Dhahran, they will go to Cairo for talks with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and other officials. The delegation also is scheduled to visit Jerusalem and meet there with Israeli officials.
AP880803-0065 	X	A jury has convicted two Navajos in the shooting and burning deaths of two tribal police officers, but couldn't agree on a verdict for a third defendant, who now faces a murder retrial. The federal jury on Tuesday found Thomas Cly, 22, and Vinton Bedoni, 31, guilty of two counts of first-degree murder and two counts of using a firearm in the December killings. Prosecutors said they would seek a new murder trial for the third defendant, Ben Atene Jr. Atene, 22, must be retried within 70 days under federal speedy trial rules. He was being held without bail in the Salt Lake County Jail. ``The people on the (Navajo) reservation were watching to see whether white man's justice worked,'' said U.S. Attorney Brent Ward, who added he had ``never been so pleased'' with a case since taking his post. Ward said Atene's next trial might be aided by more witnesses, who, in light of the two convictions, might admit to being at the murder scene. U.S. District Judge Thomas Greene set sentencing for Cly and Bedoni for Oct. 3. The first-degree murder charges each carry a possible life sentence and the weapons charges carry five years. The jury deliberated 48 hours before convicting Cly and Bedoni. Greene then ordered the jurors to continue deliberations for Atene. When they were unable to come to a decision 90 minutes later, Greene declared a mistrial in Atene's case. Greene denied a defense request to acquit Atene. First-degree murder charges were dismissed July 22 against Atene's 22-year-old brother, Marques Atene, when prosecutors acknowledged they didn't have enough evidence for a conviction. The defendants were charged in the slayings of officers Roy Lee Stanley and Andy Begay, whose charred bodies were found Dec. 5 inside a burned-out police truck in a remote southern Utah canyon. During the trial, prosecution witnesses testified that the officers were shot at the scene of a bonfire and drinking party on the night of Dec. 4. Alcohol is illegal on the reservation. Defense attorney Robert VanSciver said he planned to discuss the possibility of appeal with his client, Bedoni. Attorney Ed Brass said he was certain Cly would challenge his conviction. The verdict brought relief and sadness to Marie Holiday, whose brother was Stanley. ``I've been thinking about my brother Roy all during this trial,'' she said. ``I kept thinking about him, so I have this mixed feeling and I don't know how to describe it.'' The killings have divided the community of about 2,000 Navajos living in Monument Valley in southeastern Utah, she said, and she and her family have been ostracized by many of their neighbors. ``They all wept with us when my brother died, but then when these people were arrested for it, they all turned the other way,'' she said.
AP901205-0116 	X	Iraq has accepted President Bush's offer to hold talks on the Persian Gulf crisis, the State Department said today. ``We are engaged with them on dates and arrangements for the two meetings,'' the department said. Bush had proposed that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein send his foreign minister, Tariq Aziz, to Washington. Then, Bush said in making the offer last Friday, Secretary of State James A. Baker III would go to Baghdad. In Buenos Aires, Argentina, today, Bush said any talks would be mandated by U.N. Security Council resolutions that have been adopted since the crisis began. ``That means no concession of territory. That means freedom of innocent people that are held against their will. ... And that means the eventual security and stability of the gulf, although that's not specified by the resolution,'' Bush said. His comments came before the State Department announced that Iraq had accepted the offer to hold talks. Earlier today, Baker told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that he would not negotiate with Saddam on the trip and added a new warning: ``If force must be used, it will be used suddenly, massively and decisively.'' He said his meeting in Baghdad ``will not be the beginning of a negotation over the terms of the United Nations resolutions.'' Nor, Baker said, would he negotiate on subjects ``unrelated'' to the Iraqi occupation of Kuwait. ``I will not be negotiating the Palestinian question or the civil war in Lebanon,'' he said. ``Saddam did not invade Kuwait to help the Palestinians. He did it for his own self-aggrandizement.'' Saddam had said earlier that the Palestinian problem must be on the agenda in any dialogue with Baker. Joe Wilson, the deputy ambassador in Iraq, was called in by the Iraqi foreign minister to be told of Iraq's acceptance of the offer, the announcement said. Wilson and a number of other U.S. officials remain in the U.S. Embassy in Baghadad. Bush made last week's unexpected overture at a presidential news conference in Washington. It followed mounting complaints in Congress that the administration was rushing into war with Iraq over its invasion of Kuwait without giving diplmacy enough time for the pursuit of a peaceful settlement. Even so, Bush pledged the administration would not waver from the resolution approved last Thursday by the U.N. Security Council threatening a forceful eviction of Iraqi troops if they did not withdraw by Jan. 15. Sen. Paul Simon, D-Ill., urged Baker at today's hearing to provide Saddam Hussein with ``a way out'' of the crisis. He suggested one approach would be to propose the World Court resolve Iraq's territorial claims against Kuwait. ``If at all possible, make that a meaningful trip,'' Simon urged. Baker stressed that the U.N. resolution did not require the United States to attack Jan. 15 or a day after. Without elaboration, Baker said diplomatic steps were being taken in the search for a peaceful solution. However, Baker insisted that Iraq must withdraw from all of Kuwait, liberate all foreign hostages and permit the restoration of the ousted government. Bush, in making the offer to swap envoys, said Baker would not waver from the three demands. ``The best way to get that across is one-on-one, Baker looking him in the eye,'' Bush said.
AP881222-0153 	X	An unprecedented plan by Boston University to run Chelsea's troubled schools deprives parents of a say in their children's education, the state education commissioner and teachers unions charged Thursday. Education Commissioner Harold Raynolds said the Chelsea School Committee was abdicating its responsibility to run the community's schools and depriving Chelsea residents of a role. ``This is a sort of modern-day tragedy,'' Reynolds said. The private university has proposed taking over the management and operation of Chelsea's schools for 10 years. Schools in the industrial city north of Boston have among the lowest test scores and highest dropout rates in the state. The School Committee is the local school board in Chelsea and is expected to endorse the takeover. The Massachusetts Federation of Teachers opposes the plan. ``The citizens ought to control their schools, the citizens ought to determine the climate in which their children learn,'' said Annemarie DuBois, union director. ``It is not necesssary to take the public out of public education.'' The plan calls for BU to raise money from private sources and use students and faculty from its School of Education. Other elements in the proposal raised hackles, including the university's request for an exemption from state open-meeting and open-records laws and freedom from liability if students, parents or others sue it. The state wants those elements revised, and an amended plan was due Thursday. But it did not materialize. Peter Greer, dean of the School of Education, and university attorney Michael Rosen said those concerns were being worked out and a revised plan would be ready next month. Once the Chelsea School Committee agrees to the contract, it still requires the Legislature's approval. Greer said that at a public meeting last month in Chelsea, 38 out of 44 people spoke in favor of the plan. ``The people of Chelsea have said `Please do this,''' he said. Teachers unions have questioned the constitutionality of the plan but failed several weeks ago to persuade a judge to bar the contract from going forward. About 275 Chelsea teachers are represented by the 650,000-member American Federation of Teachers, which also opposes the plan. ``We delude ourselves into thinking this is a model or experiment that could be duplicated,'' said Bella Rosenberg, assistant to national AFT president Albert Shanker. This is ``a small school district that is about to become a colony of a very large university,'' Ms. Rosenberg said.
AP900202-0213 	X	Chrysler Corp. will shut down its car assembly plant in St. Louis and lay off 3,700 workers in a move that's likely to worsen already souring relations between the company and its union. Thursday's announcement, the latest in a series of moves by U.S. automakers to cut capacity in the face of slumping sales, makes it likely that job security will be the union's top priority when it opens contract negotiations with the nation's Big Three automakers this summer. Chrysler said its St. Louis No. 1 plant will close Sept. 21, one week after its existing contract with the United Auto Workers expires. As previously announced, Chrysler will eliminate one shift at the plant on Feb. 12. The company said it will transfer production of the Dodge Daytona to its Sterling Heights, Mich., assembly plant, and shift assembly of the Chrysler LeBaron coupe and convertible to its Newark, Del., plant. The St. Louis plant will be the third Chrysler has closed since late 1988. It was announced just one day before the company closes a Detroit plant and puts 1,700 other workers on indefinite layoff. The move angered United Auto Workers officials. ``Workers and their unions don't design the cars or develop the marketing plans,'' UAW President Owen Bieber and Vice President Stan Marshall, head of the union's Chrysler department, said in a statement. ``Senior management calls those shots, but when they miscalculate or screw up, they all stay in place while the workers are told to hit the street,'' they said. Chrysler spokesman Doug Nicoll said the timing of the St. Louis plant closing was dictated by the UAW contract, which expires Sept. 14. That pact doesn't allow the company to close a plant because of product transfers. It says plants may be shut down only if sales of its products slump badly. Chrysler used that as justification for today's closing of its Jefferson Avenue assembly plant in Detroit. That factory makes Dodge Omni and Plymouth Horizon subcompact cars, whose sales have fallen by more than 50 percent from their heyday of about 208,000 in 1986. The UAW has contested that closing, saying Chrysler didn't do enough to keep the design of the small cars fresh and market them properly. Some of the 1,700 workers laid off from Jefferson Avenue will be offered jobs at Jefferson North, a plant under construction next to the existing factory. That plant will begin producing a sport-utility vehicle in late 1992. Chrysler is shutting the St. Louis plant in two stages. Beginning Feb. 12, it will eliminate one shift, putting 1,900 of its 3,700 workers on indefinite layoff. In September, it will lay off the remaining 1,800 workers and close the plant. The announcement couldn't have come at a worst moment, said Harley Shaiken, a labor professor at the University of California at San Diego. ``I think this coming on top of Jefferson is going to create a lot of anxiety and hostility in the industry going into negotiations,'' he said. The UAW opens talks with General Motors Corp., Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler in July. UAW President Owen Bieber said negotiating priorities will be worked out at a special union convention in May in Kansas City, Mo., but job security was more than likely to be the top issue. Michigan State University labor professor Dale Brickner agreed. ``Job security is going to be the barn burner,'' Brickner said. ``If we had strikes this fall, one or more, it certainly would not surprise me.'' Nicoll, the Chrysler spokesman, said the Delaware and Michigan plants would be idled in November to retool for the new cars and would resume production in December. Employment at each plant will increase by a few hundred workers, with laid off St. Louis workers getting the first cracks at the new jobs. The St. Louis closing is one in a series of temporary or indefinite shutdowns or production cuts at Big Three assembly plants nationwide. About 15,400 workers will have lost their jobs at 11 GM or Chrysler assembly plants because of indefinite layoffs between January and September. ``This isn't the last,'' Shaiken said. ``I think we will see something else at GM, particularly as contract time approaches.'' The closures come as auto sales slump and capacity at Japanese-owned plants grows. Within the last year, Honda Motor Co. Ltd. has opened a second assembly plant in Ohio and Nissan Motor Corp. has announced a huge expansion of its factory in Smyrna, Tenn. Since 1986, the best year in automotive sales history, GM and Chrysler have lost market share while Ford and Japanese companies, with the help of their new U.S. plants, have increased their shares.
AP900409-0201 	X	He's a composer for our time, a man who writes operas about the social condition of the modern world. Sir Michael Tippett, though better known in his native England than in America, has been called ``one of the three or four giant composers in the last half of the 20th century.''
AP901002-0033 	X	The Education Department says an investigation has determined that a graduate mathematics program at the University of California at Los Angeles discriminated against Asian Americans. Michael Williams, assistant secretary for civil rights, said Monday that the 30-month inquiry found ``a statistical disparity in the rates of admission to the mathematics department on the basis of race'' and ``an inconsistency in how Asian and white applicants who received the same evaluation ratings were treated.'' Seventy-five other departments were cleared of discrimination allegations, while eight departments were found to have inconclusive records, Williams said. The Office of Civil Rights also is investigating undergraduate admission practices at UCLA and at Harvard. As a result of the findings, Williams said UCLA must offer admission to five Asian-American students who had been ``discriminatorily denied admission.'' The university also must establish a uniform system of admission and improve recordkeeping ``to allow us to determine whether or not it is observing the civil rights laws.'' UCLA Chancellor Charles Young said the university will appeal the violation finding because ``we firmly believe that racially neutral criteria were used to make these decisions and that the OCR has no basis to conclude that discrimination exists at UCLA.'' ---
AP881023-0047 	X	The Pittsburgh Cancer Institute has started human testing of a treatment that doctors hope will enhance the body's ability to fight cancer and maybe dissolve malignant tumors. Two patients at the center were the first people to receive the treatment, in vitro sensitization or IVS, which previously had been tested only on mice, The Pittsburgh Press reported Sunday. Studies have shown the process fights remaining tumor cells in mice, the newspaper said. In some cases, the animals' cancer has been eliminated entirely. Researchers say it is too soon to tell what effect the treatment has had on the two patients. Their patients' identity and the type of cancer they had were not disclosed. The tests began in June. ``I have no question but that at some point in the intermediate-term future, this will be of therapeutic benefit,'' said Dr. John M. Kirkwood, one of two principal investigators in the study. Dr. Norman Wolmark, the other lead investigator, said the information gathered in the study should be useful in pointing the way even if there is no immediate effect on the two patients' tumors. ``I think the treatment can be modified in the hope that a successful tumor response will result,'' he said. In vitro sensitization involves removing a tumor and irradiating it to inactivate the tumor cells, researchers told The Press. The cells are combined with a bacterium commonly used to vaccinate against tuberculosis in order to stimulate the patient's immune system. The patient then is injected with the irradiated cells to produce sensitized lymphocytes, or cells critical to the body's natural defense against disease and infection, researchers said. Other steps in the complex treatment involve the use of the tumor-fighting hormone interleukin-2. Researchers told the Press it may be two years or more before enough patients are treated for a sufficient amount of time to know the effectiveness of the treatment. The groundwork for the treatment was begun more than five years ago at the National Cancer Institute in Washington by research scientist Suyu Shu. In 1986, Shu moved to the Pittsburgh Cancer Institute, which is affiliated with the University of Pittsburgh, where he continued his laboratory work with mice. He recently left for the University of Michigan. Shu's approach, called adoptive cellular immunotheraphy, is not a widely used approach to cancer research. Most tumors are not recognized or only weakly recognized by the body's immune system and therefore continue growing because the immune system does little to attack them, said Dr. Ronald Herberman, director of the Pittsburgh Cancer Institute. ``This is basically the main reason there has not been great emphasis'' in research to enhance the immune system, he told the newspaper. Herberman said researchers, ideally, would ``like to see some almost immediate shrinkage of the tumor. But it may not happen that way.'' ``It's a tall order to expect this kind of treatment would actually make a large tumor melt away,'' he said.
AP881102-0037 	X	Sen. Dan Quayle is warning Republicans against overconfidence in the waning days of the presidential campaign, saying the GOP could end up like Thomas Dewey in 1948. Arriving here Tuesday night at the end of a long campaign day in Ohio, Kentucky and Indiana, Quayle said ``the polls have been all over the lot.'' ``We believe, in fact, we have a small but marginally insignificant lead,'' he told reporters. Two nationwide surveys released Tuesday night show the Republican ticket of George Bush and Quayle holding double-digit leads of 12 and 13 points in the final week before the election. Earlier, while campaigning for Indiana Lt. Gov. John Mutz, who is trying to succeed Robert Orr in Quayle's homestate of Indiana, the senator sought to deflect burgeoning speculation about whether his wife, Marilyn, might be appointed to fill his vacant Senate seat in the event of a Bush-Quayle victory next Tuesday. ``It's going to be Bob Orr's decision,'' Quayle said of talk within Republican Party circles in the state that Mrs. Quayle might be offered the vacant seat. During an interview last weekend on the syndicated program ``McLaughlin: One on One,'' Quayle's wife refused to flatly rule out such a possibility. ``I think it's a real honor for her to be considered,'' Quayle told reporters in Evansville. ``I'm not going to do anything to disrupt the discussion. ... Of course, we've got a family, and life is going to change a lot'' if the Bush-Quayle ticket is elected, he said. Quayle was appearing at a campaign rally today in this ``City on the Bluffs'' before traveling to Owensboro, Ky. He has appearances scheduled later in the week in Greenville and Spartanburg, S.C., and in Oklahoma and Alabama. The senator, who complained about last-minute scheduling changes dictated by the Bush campaign headquarters in Washington, seemed buoyed by two appearances in his homestate, one in Jeffersonville and the second in Evansville. Red, white and blue balloons sailed in front of a flag-waving, cheering crowd as the band struck up ``Back Home in Indiana.'' But when he arrived in Memphis in late evening, Quayle deflected questions which assumed a Republican Party victory at the polls. ``We believe this election could still go either way,'' he said. ``We're not taking anything for granted. That would be absolutely lethal.'' ``One way you can lose an election is to sit back, and relax, and we'll end up like Dewey did,'' Quayle said. He was referring to Thomas Dewey's upset loss to Democrat Harry Truman 40 years ago in an election that virtually all the experts had given to Dewey.
AP881230-0020 	X	With 36.5 miles of shelves and more than 1.1 million different books, John Zubal thinks his bookstore offers the largest collection of titles for sale in the world. He hopes the Guinness Book of World Records will think so, too. Zubal, 49, says he's writing the editors of the Guinness Book once he has gathered supporting evidence. And there's quite a bit of it. Four warehouses, packed with books from floor to ceiling, house Zubal's volumes, arranged alphabetically by categories. The complex is so large that, until recently, his 49-year-old wife, Marilyn, used roller skates to retrieve customer requests. Guinness lists W. & G. Foyle Ltd. of London as the bookstore with the most shelving at 30 miles, while Barnes & Noble Bookstore in New York City is listed as the largest book building with 154,250 square feet of books, said Sheelagh Thomas, a deputy editor for Guinness in England. Zubal said he has 78,000 square feet of books, and more titles than any other store because he has few duplicate books, textbooks or remainders such as those sold at Barnes & Noble and Foyle. Bibliophiles from as far way as Japan visit his store regularly, he said. But if you want to learn how to ski or groom your pet, don't go to Zubal's. ``We don't have too many (books) for the casual reader,'' Zubal said recently. ``Mostly our books are for the scholar and most are sold by mail order. We are not too concerned with what is being published now.'' Fewer than 2 percent of Zubal's tomes were published after 1960, he said. Some of the biggest categories are literary criticism, anthropology, philosophy, theology and history. Zubal estimated he has 250 books alone about Charles Dickens and 1,000 on Shakespeare. ``We do a lot of business in World War II books,'' said Zubal. ``We think there are about 6,000 books published on World War II, and we have 3,000.'' Zubal acquires most of his books from contacts who tell him of literary estates or bookstores for sale. ``I used to hit the flea market circuit but now I let the younger guys do it,'' said the bookseller, who travels to Europe several times a year to buy and sell. Zubal also owns autographed editions by James Joyce, Ernest Hemingway and flying ace Eddie Rickenbacker. While Zubal said all his books are for sale, ``there are books I mark up to scare off the fainthearted.'' He was not ready to dicker over an autographed edition of ``Finnegan's Wake'' priced at $3,000. ``I'm in no hurry to sell it,'' he said. ``It's money in the bank.'' Once Zubal submits his claim to Guinness, Ms. Thomas said, he will need to submit two forms from witnesses validating his claim and a color photograph. Ms. Thomas said editors would have to determine if his claim to have the most individual titles would merit a separate record category. ``That is always a possibility, but we can't make any promises,'' she said.
AP880812-0099 	X	President Reagan's spokesman today denounced House-passed legislation to withdraw all U.S. investment from racially segregated South Africa, while supporter announced a campaign to ensure its passage in the Senate. Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the bill would ``destroy America's flexibility'' to seek change through diplomatic pressure. ``Such moves are more likely to stymie progress toward ending apartheid rather than to accelerate its end,'' Fitzwater said. The House on Thursday adopted, on a 244-132 vote, the South Africa sanctions bill, which also would impose a near-total trade embargo. The bill faces threats of a Republican filibuster and a Reagan veto. Supporters hailed the dramatic measure as a last-chance opportunity to bring strong economic pressure to bear to help end South Africa's apartheid system of racial separation by expanding the less sweeping sanctions adopted in 1986. But Republicans said the bill represents a ``scorched earth'' policy that amounts to declaring economic war against South Africa, a war they said would hurt the blacks it is designed to help by causing millions to lose their jobs. ``Apartheid is a morally wrong and politically unacceptable system which is the root cause of South Africa's disorder,'' Fitzwater said. ``However, the imposition of sanctions is not the solution,'' he said. ``Sanctions would hurt the very people that we seek to help. They would destroy America's flexibility, discard our diplomatic leverage and deepen the crisis.'' Groups supporting the bill told a news conference they still lack the two-thirds majority needed to override a veto but believe they could get it signed by Democrat Michael Dukakis if he is elected. Robert Brauer, legal counsel to Rep. Ron Dellums, D-Calif., said proponents were meeting with key Senate aides today to discuss strategy for the Sept. 8 debate of the sanctions bill in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Damu Smith, executive director of the Washington Office on Africa which has lobbied for an end to apartheid, said his organization will intensify a grass-roots campaign against a threatened Senate filibuster. GOP members called on the House to reverse course and adopt a policy of ``black empowerment'' to increase the economic and political power of blacks and weaken the foundations of the apartheid system. But Rep. Howard Wolpe, D-Mich., and other sanctions supporters said that course simply will not work. ``Black economic empowerment in the face of apartheid is an impossibility,'' Wolpe said as the House voted down a trio of Republican-sponsored amendments designed to dilute or change the legislation. With the House and Senate eager to adjourn for the fall elections, little time remains to push the bill through Congress, especially since both houses likely would be faced with votes to override a presidential veto. In a policy statement, the administration said Reagan's senior advisers will recommend that he veto the sanctions bill if it emerges from Congress in its present form because it ``undermines the president's ability to conduct foreign policy.'' It was likely that Senate opponents of the measure would launch a filibuster, since there is no limit on discourse in that chamber. Opponents have refused in the past to agree voluntarily to limit discussion on such issues, forcing the chamber to a cloture vote to shut off debate, a vote that requires the support of a two-thirds majority. Many Republican opponents accused the House Democratic leadership of staging a political vote to score points among black voters for Democratic presidential candidate Michael Dukakis and for political activist Jesse Jackson on the eve of the Republican National Convention. ``Some of us wonder if the real purpose of this bill is to be responsive to the Jackson-Dukakis foreign policy,'' said Rep. William Broomfield, R-Mich. ``We are not bringing this bill to embarrass Republicans,'' said Rep. Ronald Dellums, D-Calif., principal sponsor of the measure. ``We are here to free black South Africa. This has nothing to do with presidential politics.'' Dellums said White House officials, citing ongoing peace negotiations in southern Africa, had asked him repeatedly over the last several days not to bring up the bill until after Congress returns from its Labor Day recess. He said he agreed to do so, but only if Reagan promised in writing not to veto the bill if it reached his desk. Dellums said that in the end, the White House declined to make such a promise and he decided to go ahead. In an emotional summary that drew a standing ovation from his colleagues, Dellums told the House: ``I listened to those who said this is going to hurt blacks, it's going to hurt corporations. But human beings will struggle for their freedom, in peace if they can, in violence if they must. ... That pales every single argument you have made. We must end the madness of apartheid.'' The disinvestment legislation has its roots in the economic sanctions voted by Congress in 1986 and still in effect. They banned all new public and private loans and investments in South Africa and barred certain imports and exports. The bill contains these major provisions: _All U.S. investment in South Africa would be banned and U.S. corporations with such investments would be compelled to divest them. The investment ban would not apply to any business in which blacks or other non-whites have at least a 90 percent ownership interest. _All South African imports to the United States would be banned except for certain strategic minerals and publications. The 1986 sanctions law banned only agricultural products, coal, textiles, uranium, and military vehicles. _All U.S. exports to South Africa would be prohibited with the exception of agricultural products, publications and U.S. public and private assistance. _The bill bars a U.S. company or vessel from transporting crude or refined oil to South Africa. Americans also would be forbidden to engage in the production of nuclear material in South Africa.
AP900930-0028 	X	A rapist says his life was ruined by a judge who called the victim a ``pitiful woman'' as he rejected a prison sentence worked out in a plea bargain. ``He has created a living hell for me,'' said Mark Edward McCulloch, who accepted a 4{-year prison term offered by prosecutors but was placed on probation for two years. ``I was ready to go to jail.'' McCulloch now fears for his safety, saying, ``I can't walk out of the door without fear of losing my life. He put me at risk. Anyone can take a shot at me.'' Gov. Bob Martinez and others called for the resignation of Seminole Circuit Judge Kenneth Leffler after the sentencing, but the judge is returning to the bench Monday under a self-imposed limit restricting his cases to civil suits. McCulloch rented a room from the victim, a 40-year-old Casselberry woman, for two years and accepted full responsibility for the rape April 9. The woman said her tenant became infatuated and obsessed with her. Leffler, who presided over the woman's 1987 divorce trial, said at the sentencing, ``I'm almost of the belief that she is a victimizer of men.''
AP880916-0216 	X	A Findlay man sitting in a downtown restaurant was arrested Friday after someone allegedly overheard him making threatening remarks against Vice President George Bush, police said. Bush, the Republican presidential nominee, campaigned in the northwest Ohio city Friday morning. Police said Charles T. Rode Jr., 35, allegedly made threatening comments about 9 a.m., shortly before Bush's arrival. Police and Secret Service agents arrested Rode, who did not resist and was not carrying a weapon, police said. He was held until Bush left the city and then was taken to the Lucas County jail in Toledo, where he was being held without bond Friday night on a charge of threatening the vice president.
AP900328-0151 	X	Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher underlined the need for restraint on all sides in the Lithuania crisis during a 50-minute telephone conversation Wednesday with Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, her office said. The phone call, arranged in advance through diplomatic contacts, was timed to precede Mrs. Thatcher's meetings Thursday and Friday with West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl in Britain and with President Bush in Bermuda on April 13. Mrs. Thatcher's office gave no details on Gorbachev's response on Lithuania but said she emphasized the need for restraint and negotiations and expressed hope the crisis could be settled in a way suitable to both sides. ``The people of Lithuania have made clear their wish to determine their own future,'' Mrs. Thatcher said to the House of Commons Tuesday. She said Britain had never recognized the 1940 Soviet annexation of Lithuania though it was recognized ``in fact'' in the 35-nation Helsinki accords in 1975. ``Undoubtedly, that is a very difficult situation, both for President Gorbachev and for the people of Lithuania,'' Mrs. Thatcher said. ``I believe that it calls for great restraint on both sides. Force is not an appropriate way to settle the position. I hope it will be settled by restraint on both sides and by their discussing it so that they come to a satisfactory conclusion. ``That view was also taken by the 12 foreign secretaries of the European Community,'' she said. Mrs. Thatcher's spokesman, who by custom was not identified, said the conversation also covered other world events, including the East German elections, prospects for German unification, and the prime minister's visit to Kiev in June.
AP880427-0128 	X	Mayor Edward I. Koch said he stands by his criticism of the Rev. Jesse Jackson before New York's Democratic primary, but says he regrets that his belligerent style and sharply worded attacks offended Jackson's supporters. In a statement released hours after Police Commissioner Benjamin Ward called on the mayor to apologize for his ``divisive'' remarks, Koch said he had ``articulated my concerns in a way that, regrettably, offended a large number of people, both black and white.'' ``I would hope they will look beyond my style to the substance of what I said, which I believe was fair political criticism. ``The words I used were too sharp. These are words I have used for years. Because of the particular sensitivity of this situation, I should have been more careful in my choice of words.'' It was highly unusual for Ward _ the city's first black police commissioner and a Koch appointee _ to comment on political matters that did not directly involve the police department, but he said he felt the need to do so because he was being asked regularly about Koch's anti-Jackson efforts. In a letter that appeared in today's editions of The New York Times, Koch said, ``It was never my intent to draw political lines with racial or religious borders.'' Ward said today he was ``absolutely'' satisfied that the mayor never intended to insult the black community. Koch's attacks on Jackson have brought a continued backlash and have prompted early efforts to form a coalition to defeat the mayor next year, when it is expected he will seek a fourth term. When asked if Koch was apologizing to Jackson as well as his supporters, the mayor's press secretary, George Arzt, responded: ``Whatever the letter says. We're not going beyond it.''
AP901211-0160 	X	The original Budweiser brewery will pay $6.5 million to leave government control next year and link with its U.S. counterpart, a news agency said Tuesday. Budvar, the small brewery in the southern Bohemian town of Ceske Budejovice, known as Budweis in German, has brewed its namesake beer since the 19th century. Adolphus Busch, a Bavarian native, acquired the rights to sell the beer in North America early this century. St. Louis-based Anheuser-Busch Cos. Inc., the world's largest beer producer, tried to set up a joint venture with Budvar in 1988, but Communist authorities nixed the deal at the time. Efforts for ties between the companies were renewed following last year's democratic revolution. Government authorities sought compensation from Budvar in exchange for independence and the right to use the famous trademark. Budvar workers went on strike Monday in an effort to speed up the talks. Antonin Kratochvile, general manager of the state-controlled brewery chain Jihoceske Pivovary, said Monday that Budvar had agreed to pay the group $6.5 million for independence. ``After long negotiations which lasted almost a year the conflict was finally resolved,'' the official CTK news agency reported. CTK said the brewery would be independent in January. ``The Budvar beer is being brewed again for local distribution and export as well,'' CTK added. Details of a possible U.S-Czech joint venture have not been disclosed.
AP900320-0113 	X	Environmental Protection Agency auditors are reviewing the agency's handling of an unusual case that put the bite on dozens of dentists because they sold old fillings whose toxic ingredients ended up in the soil. The case has attracted the attention of lawmakers because it tests how far the government can reach to hold parties accountable for toxic waste contamination. Last week, the EPA inspector general's office said it was assigning auditors to conduct a 60-day review of the case before determining whether additional study was necessary. The review comes at the request of a Pittsburgh dental supplier who claims the agency overstepped its authority. The case hinges on amalgam _ the stuff that fillings are made of _ and whether it can be considered a ``hazardous substance'' after it has been removed from peoples' teeth. Amalgam is a hard, durable alloy. Dentists often save old fillings or leftover amalgam and sell it to processors, who break it down into mercury or silver. The EPA alleged in 1987 and 1988 that Pittsburgh dental suppliers Roy Ott, his son Ken, and other companies sold amalgam to metal processor Eugene Bourdeaudhui. As a result of Bourdeaudhui's efforts to break the amalgam down, the agency said soil in Willington, Conn., became so polluted with toxic mercury that it required a $710,000 cleanup in 1985. In seeking out responsible parties to pay for the cleanup, the EPA stunned the nationwide dental community by going after not only Bourdeaudhui but also 58 dentists and several dental suppliers who did business with him. All the parties have settled with EPA, according to attorney Robert Ging of Confluence, Pa. His clients, the Otts, agreed last November to pay the government $30,000 because they said the expense of further legal challenges was too great. In announcing several of the settlements last year, the EPA said the agreements ``demonstrate that members of the dental community understand that they have a responsibility to make themselves aware of dental amalgam's ultimate disposal method and that the dental community _ which controls the disposition of waste amalgam _ rather than taxpayers, should bear the cost of cleanup.'' But Ging said in an interview Tuesday that the principle involved compelled the Otts last month to ask EPA Inspector General John C. Martin to review the case. ``Mr. Ott and his son were so offended by the waste and the injustice of the whole procedure that they felt it ws worth their time and effort to bring this to the attention of the Congress and the people,'' Ging said. Several lawmakers agreed with the Otts that the case raised basic fairness questions. ``The fact that dental amalgam is considered a hazardous waste under Superfund comes as a surprise to many,'' said Rep. Doug Walgren, D-Pa., in a letter last year to EPA. ``A substance which is in my mouth _ and the mouths of millions of Americans _ and is deemed `safe' by dentists and the American Dental Association hardly seems a candidate for Superfund coverage.'' Walgren also said it ignored ``a common sense standard of reasonableness'' to hold Ott and the dentists responsible for the actions of a ``third party'' in Connecticut. Through the Freedom of Information Act, the Otts obtained EPA documents they said demonstrated excessive charges by contractors for the cleanup. ``We share your concern that contractors may be charging excessive fees under the Superfund law,'' Rep. John Dingell, D-Mich. and chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said in a letter to the family several weeks ago.
AP900516-0061 	X	Pan American World Airways called on the United States and foreign governments today to establish uniform anti-terrorist security measures for all air carriers. In a full-page advertisement carried in The New York Times and the Washington Post, Pan Am said security measures ordered by the Federal Aviation Administration were required for American airlines, but not for foreign carriers. ``To be effective, security systems must come about through a cooperative team effort among governments, their agencies and airlines,'' it said. ``To do otherwise would be to perpetuate the present patchwork of rules and regulations.'' The advertisement, signed by Pan Am Chairman Thomas G. Plaskett, came one day after the President's Commission on Aviation and Security and Terrorism released a critical report on airline security. The commission was convened to investigate the December 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, which killed 259 people on the plane and 11 people on the ground. Pan Am suggested that security systems could be supported by government funds or a surcharge on all international air fares. ``Governments of all nations must take direct responsibility ... by providing whatever resources are necessary for improving the security of international air travel,'' the airline said. The presidential commission's report called on the government to consider ``preemptive or retaliatory military strikes'' against terrorist enclaves in other countries to combat air terrorism. A system should be set up to notify passengers of credible terrorist threats, it said, and the government should take more seriously the possibility of terrorist strikes in the United States.
AP901220-0185 	X	RIYADH, Saudi Arabia - The Pentagon warned Saddam Hussein today that U.S. air power will be ready to attack Iraq by Jan. 1 - even if all ground forces are not ready for war by that U.N.-imposed deadline for him to withdraw from Kuwait. The statement came from a top aide to Defense Secretary Dick Cheney the morning after a senior U.S. commander here raised eyebrows by saying American ground troops might not be ready to fight Iraq until a month or more past the United Nations deadline - and that he would urge President Bush not to order any attack until the full U.S. deployment was ready for war. Cheney spokesman Pete Williams said Cheney ``was not displeased'' by Lt. Gen. Calvin A.H. Waller's candid assessment. Still, today's statement by Williams and other comments by senior military officers here appeared clearly designed to give the deadline more teeth to counter any interpretation of Waller's remarks as possibly undermining Bush's demand that Saddam meet the deadline or risk attack. ---&equals; WASHINGTON - The Bush administration, trying to blunt criticism in Congress, says U.S. allies have spent more than $9 billion for the American-led military showdown with Iraq and ``the support is there.'' Some lawmakers have accused Germany and Japan - wealthy nations dependent on oil imports - of letting the United States shoulder the financial and military burden of the Persian Gulf crisis. Sen. Jim Sasser, D-Tenn., said Saudi Arabia was reaping a windfall profit of about $150 million a day in increased oil sales and have contributed only $987 million in cash and material - equivalent to about 6.5 days' worth of those profits. Sasser, chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, said Japan had pledged $4 billion to the gulf effort and had paid $374 million through Nov. 30. Germany, he said, had offered $900 million and paid $330 million. ---&equals;
AP900515-0190 	X	'' with Shevardnadze interview
AP880609-0227 	X	President Reagan joined with President Mobutu Sese Seko of Zaire in offering praise Thursday for Jonas Savimbi, the guerrilla leader trying to overthrow Angola's communist government, the White House said. During their 15-minute White House meeting, the two presidents also thanked each other for backing solutions to problems in southern Africa and Angola, where the United States has been pressing for the pullout of pro-government Cuban military forces, said White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater. The White House issued a statement later Thursday saying Reagan and Mobuto agreed to support the goal of independence for South Africa-controlled Namibia and peace and reconciliation between the Angolan government and the UNITA guerrillas in Angola. Accusations that Zaire tortures prisoners and commits other human rights abuses were not raised at the White House session, Fitzwater said. The accusations were disputed by Mobutu in a brief talk with reporters. ``You can only oppress a people if they do not have confidence in you, which is not the case in Zaire, contrary to what has been written,'' he said. Mobutu, on a private visit to the United States, said the main purpose of his White House call was to thank Reagan ``for all he has done for Zaire in the framework of the friendship and solidarity which exists between our two countries.'' He also congratulated Reagan ``for the successes he had during the Moscow summit .. he has given a glimmer of hope to all of humanity.'' The Zairean president was also meeting with U.S. Treasury Secretary James Banker and with officials of the World Bank, which last year granted his country an $80 million loan.
AP881110-0196 	X	The International Monetary Fund announced today that it is granting the west African republic of Ghana a loan of $497 million under its new, easier terms for the poorest countries. Interest will be at only 0.5 percent, instead of the usual 6 to 7 percent or more, and there will be a 5 1@2 year grace period during which only interest need be paid. Ghana will get 10 years to repay the principal. It will get the new money in six semi-annual disbursements, which can be suspended if Ghana fails to meet agreed conditions. Ghana already owes the fund $628 million. The fund did not announce the details of its conditions, but said the government of Flight Lt. Jerry Rawlings has undertaken to speed up ``structural reforms.'' It added that the government is also trying to help the country's poorest and most vulnerable groups.
AP880720-0291 	X	GTE Corp. is cutting back in the expensive and competitive business of building telephone network switches by turning over 49 percent of its operation to American Telephone & Telegraph Co. GTE will own 51 percent of a joint venture with AT&T, then reduce its ownership to 20 percent after five years and zero after 15 years, under an agreement in principle announced by the companies Wednesday. The venture will consist of GTE's network switching business, which employs about 2,000 workers in the Phoenix, Ariz., area and about 3,000 in factories in the Chicago suburbs of Northlake and Genoa, Ill. AT&T will give the joint venture licenses to use some of AT&T's own advanced switching technology. It will continue to run its own network switching business independently of the joint venture. AT&T dominates the U.S. market for network switches, which are basically computers installed in the central offices of phone companies that are loaded with complex software to handle high-tech communications. The newest switches are being upgraded at enormous expense to handle simultaneous transmission of voices, computer data, video signals and other information over the same circuits. The deal eases GTE out of a costly business where it has been an also-ran with about 10 percent of the market, consisting mainly of the GTE local phone companies, said John Bain, an analyst for Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. Financial arrangements were not disclosed, but since GTE's contribution is substantially larger it is reasonable to assume that AT&T will be making some kind of payment to GTE, GTE spokesman Thomas Mattausch said. GTE's customers should benefit because the joint venture will work on enhancing GTE switches using the latest in AT&T technology, the companies said. The companies' switches happen to be similar, so there is plenty of room for sharing of technology, Mattausch said. In the long term, AT&T is likely to steer GTE customers toward AT&T switches, Bain predicted. GTE has reduced its involvement in other parts of the communications equipment business in recent years by entering joint ventures with West Germany's Siemens AG and Japan's Fujitsu Ltd. ITT Corp., following a similar pattern, reduced its involvement in the network switching business at the end of 1986 by placing its telecommunications equipment business in a European-based joint venture with France's Compagnie Generale d'Electricite.
AP901130-0011 	X	Here is the text of U.N. Security Council Resolution 678, passed 12-2 Thursday, which gives Iraq until Jan. 15 to withdraw from Kuwait or face possible military action by member states: The Security Council, Recalling and reaffirming its resolutions 660 (1990), 661 (1990), 662 (1990), 664 (1990), 665 (1990), 666 (1990), 667 (1990), 669 (1990), 670 (1990), 674 (1990), and 677 (1990). Noting that, despite all efforts by the United Nations, Iraq refuses to comply with its obligation to implement Resolution 660 (1990) and the above subsequent relevant resolutions, in flagrant contempt of the Council, Mindful of its duties and responsibilities under the Charter of the United Nations for the maintenance and preservation of international peace and security, Determined to secure full compliance with its decisions, Acting under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations, 1. Demands that Iraq comply fully with Resolution 660 (1990) and all subsequent relevant resolutions and decides, while maintaining all its decisions, to allow Iraq one final opportunity, as a pause of goodwill, to do so; 2. Authorizes member states cooperating with the government of Kuwait, unless Iraq on or before 15 January 1991 fully implements, as set forth in paragraph 1 above, the foregoing resolutions, to use all necessary means to uphold and implement Security Council Resolution 660 and all subsequent relevant resolutions and to restore international peace and security in the area; 3. Requests all states to provide appropriate support for the actions undertaken in pursuance of paragraph 2 of this resolution; 4. Requests the states concerned to keep the Council regularly informed on the progress of actions undertaken pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 3 of this resolution; 5. Decides to remain seized of the matter (keep the matter under active consideration).
AP900510-0013 	X	Thirty years ago today, predominantly Protestant West Virginia said yes to a Catholic and played a pivotal role in the making of a president. When John F. Kennedy routed Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey in the state's Democratic primary on May 10, 1960, he put to rest the notion that a Catholic couldn't be president, experts said. ``It propelled John Kennedy to the nomination and undermined the religious issue,'' said West Virginia Wesleyan professor Robert Rupp, who is organizing a symposium Wednesday to discuss the role of religion, the media and campaign techniques in what he calls ``The Primary That Made a President.'' ``The West Virginia primary really was the difference in John Kennedy's success or defeat,'' said Ted Sorensen, Kennedy's former speechwriter. ``Given the handicap of his religion and to some extent the handicap of his age, he knew he would not be the choice of bosses in the back rooms. He had to win in the primaries and, above all, he had to win in Protestant areas,'' Sorensen said Wednesday. Kennedy's advisers expected the worst from West Virginia, about 90 percent Protestant at the time, although Kennedy had won five of nine earlier primaries. Kennedy beat Humphrey in West Virginia, 236,510 votes to 152,187. Although the vote made political history, West Virginia's people and the grinding, inescapable poverty some of them lived in made a lasting impression on the scion of a wealthy Massachusetts family. ``He had seen poverty before,'' Sorensen said. ``But the long-term hardship faced by many of the people he met in West Virginia, the look on their face and the stories they told made a very deep impression on him. It wasn't a theory any longer.'' Kennedy spent more time campaigning in West Virginia than anywhere else. His advisers, supporters and family members hit every chicken dinner, student rally and ladies' auxiliary meeting they could. ``It was an exhausting campaign. We went to every hill and hollow,'' Sorensen said. When he was asked about his Catholicism, Kennedy's standard response was to talk about his family's military service, a vote-swaying appeal in a state with a high percentage of soldiers, sailors and airmen. ``He said, `Nobody asked my brother about his religion when he died for his country in World War II,''' said Charles Peters, who managed Kennedy's Kanawha County effort and is now editor of the Washington Monthly. Kennedy also had Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr., son of the most popular president in West Virginia, on his side. ``That was as if God's son had said it's all right to vote for this Catholic,'' Peters said. West Virginia Secretary of State Ken Hechler, a first-term congressman at the time, was convinced Kennedy's religion would cost him the state. He changed his mind after he saw the Kennedy family in action. ``It impressed me so much that they, as a family team, knew exactly what needed to be done without any kind of chitchat,'' Hechler said. The Kennedy and Humphrey campaigns differed markedly. Kennedy chartered a plane at one point to fly to campaign stops; Humphrey rode around in a bus. Kennedy's theme song was ``High Hopes'' by Frank Sinatra; Humphrey had a folk singer. But the Kennedy high style didn't scare off the simple folk of West Virginia. Peters said he advised against bringing Jacqueline Kennedy to campaign in West Virginia. ``I thought she would come across as a snobbish, Northeast woman who would contrast unfavorably with the down-to-earth Muriel Humphrey,'' Peters said. ``Instead she was a big hit.''
AP880512-0035 	X	Pat Robertson says he will end his run for the 1988 Republican presidential nomination but will form a political action committee to fund and train conservative Christian political candidates. Robertson announced Wednesday in Washington that he had offered his endorsement to Vice President George Bush, who has mathematically clinched the GOP nomination, and indicated he would withdraw from the race on Monday. However, after Robertson's announcement, an aide, Richard Pinsky, said Robertson would suspend his campaign rather than withdraw outright, and would release his delegates, but at a later date. After his meeting with Bush, Robertson was asked by reporters at the White House whether he was withdrawing. ``I will be making that official on Monday,'' he replied. And asked whether he would be releasing his delegates, he answered, ``Of course, I will be releasing them.'' The Robertson campaign later put out a press release saying Robertson had spoken with reporters about the meeting with Bush and told them ``he is not withdrawing from the race nor is he releasing his delegates.'' The campaign did say Robertson would make a statement about his campaign status on Monday. Calls to Robertson headquarters requesting a clarification were not returned Wednesday night. The new political action committee _ Americans for the Republic _ will actively support Christian candidates, according to Barbara Gattullo, a spokesman for Americans for Robertson, Robertson's campaign organization. She said the staff of Americans for Robertson would switch to the new organization, keeping the same office in Virginia, after the papers are filed with the Federal Election Commission. In an interview with The Virginian-Pilot & The Ledger-Star of Norfolk, Robertson said he likely would return to his job as the Christian Broadcasting Network's chief executive officer, a job his son has held since Robertson announced his candidacy. That came as a surprise to CBN officials. ``I don't have a comment to make,'' CBN spokesman Benton Miller said Wednesday. ``None of the staff or I ... have been provided any information by him at this point concerning what his future plans are.'' Robertson had appeared since 1967 on the ``700 Club'' program that is the flagship of the network. He left the program in 1986 to organize his presidential campaign and in September 1987 resigned both as the network's chief executive officer and as a pastor in the Southern Baptist church to run for office. The network immediately reported a dramatic drop in revenues and began laying off personnel. At the time, spokesmen refused to blame Robertson's political ambitions for the shortfall. Robertson, who has spent more than $22 million on his campaign, has 46 delegates to the national convention. Of the March 8 Super Tuesday primaries, Robertson failed to win any. He placed third behind Bush and Kansas Republican Sen. Bob Dole in his home state of Virginia.
AP880505-0023 	X	The nation's biggest junk bond underwriter has had a change of heart about its practice of letting employees buy into its own deals, one week after being accused in Congress of favoring them over its customers. Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. announced Wednesday that employees and partnerships formed by employees will no longer be permitted to purchase new issues of bonds underwritten by the firm. The investigations subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, in hearings last week, released documents showing Drexel employees reaped huge profits by purchasing bonds underwritten by the firm and then quickly reselling them, in one case within 17 days. Employees were permitted to buy bonds during initial offerings of much-sought issues, even when the practice denied bonds to public customers, the documents showed. Drexel was instrumental in developing the market for the high-yield, high-risk junk bonds, which allow companies without a track record of earnings to obtain financing based on whether they have sufficient cash flow to pay off their debts. Junk bonds have been frequently used in corporate raiding. Of the $32 billion in junk bonds issued in 1986, 40 percent were underwritten by Drexel, according to a congressional report. Drexel chief executive Frederick Joseph, in a letter to Rep. John Dingell, D-Mich., chairman of both the committee and subcommittee, stuck by his assertions that the employee purchases were proper, but said the firm was worried about appearances. ``I indicated we supported such purchases; nonetheless public perception is important to financial institutions such as ours and we recognize that even the best of motives can be misunderstood,'' he said. Rep. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., a member of the subcommittee, said Drexel's letter leaves a number of questions unanswered, including whether Drexel will be able to trade for its own accounts and pass profits on to employees in the form of bonuses. He said he would also like to know if employee accounts will be able to trade in the secondary market, which is heavily influenced by the underwriting firm. Steven Anreder, a spokesman for Drexel, said the firm had no comment beyond its brief announcement. Dingell, in a statement released by an aide, called Drexel's decision ``a very good step,'' adding, ``It should lay to rest questions associated with the fairness and legality of that particular practice.'' However, the aide, Dennis Fitzgibbons, said Dingell has made no decision regarding his committee's ongoing investigation of Drexel. Dingell has been criticized by Rep. Thomas Bliley, R-Va., for subpoenaing Michael Milken, chief of Drexel's junk bond unit, to appear before the committee even though Milken had indicated in advance he would refuse to testify based on his constitutional protection from self-incrimination. When he refused to testify, Milken confirmed he is under investigation by a federal grand jury in New York, which is reported to be looking into insider trading allegations. Dingell said the firm's retreat on employee purchases ``indicates that the behavior of the committee was correct and fair in bringing these matters to light.'' Junk bonds pay higher interest rates than those issued by established companies and are considered riskier investments. They have been used by corporate raiders to finance unfriendly takeover attempts.
AP881207-0020 	X	Coal mine owners are generally pleased with a Supreme Court ruling shielding them and their insurance companies from paying up to $13.6 billion in additional black lung benefits but an attorney for miners claimed a partial victory. The justices ruled 9-0 on Tuesday that a group of miners estimated to number between 94,000 and 155,000 is ineligible to seek disability benefits for the disease. The group consists of those who missed deadlines for filing court appeals after they were denied benefits. Mark Solomons, a lawyer representing the mine operators, said, ``The industry is going to be pleased.'' But Solomons said a second part of the Supreme Court's ruling will spur additional litigation for a smaller number of miners hoping to receive benefits. In that section, the justices voted 5-4 to permit some miners who worked less than 10 years in the mines to seek disability pay for black lung disease, or pneumoconiosis, a respiratory ailment caused by prolonged inhaling of coal dust. Between 8,000 and 10,000 miners with pending claims could be in line to receive hundreds of millions of dollars in benefits under that part of the high court decision. The court said even if miners have less than 10 years on the job, they are presumed to be eligible for benefits if they display medical evidence of the disease. Paul Smith, a lawyer representing miners, said the ruling is a significant _ if only partial _ victory for the workers. ``The presumption makes a big difference,'' he said, because it shifts the burden of proof to the government to deny such claims. ``It's very difficult to prove you are disabled by black lung disease,'' he said. Congress created a special industry-supported fund to pay off claims by miners with the disease. Coal mine operators already owe the fund some $3 billion that was lent to it by the federal treasury. The Reagan administration had urged the justices to deny the claims of miners who had missed earlier filing deadlines. Justice Antonin Scalia, writing for the court, said nothing in federal law requires the government to reopen settled claims. ``There is not even a colorable basis for the contention that Congress has imposed a duty to reconsider finally determined claims,'' he said. But Scalia said Congress also never intended to exclude from benefit eligibility miners who worked less than 10 years. ``We do not sit to determine what Congress ought to have done given the evidence before it, but to apply what Congress enacted _ and ... the exclusion of short-term miners from the benefits ... finds no support'' in a 1977 law aimed at making it easier for miners to seek benefits, Scalia said. The high court overturned a ruling by the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals that had ordered the Labor Department to take a fresh look at claims that were denied in the late 1970s and early 1980s. The appeals court had directed the department to use the liberalized standards adopted by Congress in 1977 to determine benefit eligibility for a group numbering from 94,000 to 155,000. The cases involved potential benefits estimated at $13.6 billion. In other cases, the court: _Threw out an appeal by an unwed California father seeking to restore a parental relationship with his 7-year-old daughter. Eight days after hearing arguments in Edward McNamara's case, the court dismissed the appeal for procedural reasons and left unanswered whether unwed fathers have the same parental rights as unwed mothers. _Ruled unanimously that federal employees holding sensitive intelligence-agency jobs are not entitled to administrative hearings when fired as security risks. The justices reversed a ruling requiring a hearing for a National Security Agency employee who says he was dismissed for homosexual activities.
AP901125-0020 	X	A gunman who infiltrated from Egypt sprayed four Israeli vehicles with assault rifle fire Sunday, killing four people and wounding 24, the army said. The army said the lone gunman killed three Israeli army soldiers and a civilian driver for the national Egged bus company on the Israeli-Egyptian border, about 15 miles northwest of the Israeli Red Sea resort of Eilat. The gunman escaped back into Egypt. A senior Egyptian security source said an Egyptian border policeman assigned to the area of the attack had been arrested as the suspected assailant. Earlier reports from Cairo said the gunman had fired from the Egyptian side of the border. In Amman, Jordan a fundamentalist Islamic group Sunday claimed responsibility for the attack. The extremist Islamic Jihad-Beit Al-Maqdes, or Islamic Holy War-Jersualem, said the attack was carried out by ``one of our units operating in the land of Arabism and Islam, the land of Egypt.'' Defense Minister Moshe Arens called the attack ``a most serious incident'' and said Israel expected Egypt to take all the necessary steps to prevent such assaults. A military commander identified only as Brig. Gen. D. said on army radio that an Egyptian man ``whose identity is not clear to us at this moment'' infiltrated into Israel at the distance of about 300 yards from the scene of the shooting. ``He entered a dry riverbed, reached the road and lay in wait on the roadside,'' the commander said. The assailant opened fire on an army van, containing just the driver, who was injured but carried on for a few hundred yards and stopped. Another military car, also containing only one person and heading from Eilat to a nearby base, was hit by several bullets. The soldier inside was mortally wounded, drove for a few hundred yards and died, the commander said. Next came a military bus. The driver thought there had been an accident and stopped. He got out with his weapon but was shot dead ``at very close range'' before he could fire back. Finally, the attacker fired on an Egged bus carrying civilians working at military installations in the area. He wounded a security guard, who shot back, hitting the assailant. ``We found signs of blood showing that he was hit. I think this prevented a heavier tragedy,'' the commander said. ``The terrorist apparently intended to board the bus and take it over. He (the guard) did not let him come on board. He climbed down through the door and shot him, and from that moment the terrorist began running away.'' Reporters at the scene saw a red and white passenger bus with its windshield covered with bullet holes. Police forensic experts were seen picking up bullets around the bus. Isaac Bar-Moshe, press officer at the Israeli Embassy in Cairo, said the gunman had used a Soviet-made Kalashnikov semiautomatic rifle. If the attack was indeed committed by a member of Egypt's uniformed forces, it would be the second. On Oct. 5, 1985, an Egyptian border police officer went berserk and shot dead four Israeli children, two women and an elderly man near the border in the Sinai Desert. Before Sunday, the latest attack on an Israeli target in Egypt was on Feb. 4, when gunmen ambushed a tour bus, killing nine Israeli vacationers. The attack took place on a desert road between Cairo and the Suez Canal city of Ismailiya. Egypt is the only Arab state to have a peace treaty with Israel. After the treaty was signed in 1979, Israel began withdrawing from the Egyptian Sinai peninsula, which it occupied in 1967. Between 1984 and 1987, two Israeli diplomats and six Israelis were wounded in Cairo in a number of attacks claimed by an Egyptian terrorist organization, Egypt's Revolution.
AP900419-0172 	X	U.S. foreign policy is gaining support at the United Nations and there is less emphasis on linking foreign aid to how a recipient country votes, the American ambassador says. Some Arab envoys, however, expect the Bush administration and Congress to put pressure on recipients of American aid to rescind a General Assembly resolution adopted in 1975 that equates Zionism and racism. Ambassador Thomas R. Pickering, the U.S. permanent representative, told reporters recently the idea of linking U.S. foreign aid to supportive U.N. votes ``never rose to massive proportions, and the fact is that there is less focus now on scorecarding in aid than there was before. ``I don't think at this stage one can say this is completely a dead letter, but I don't see it rising to high prominence. ... I don't believe there is such overwhelming interest in it. ``I think we, in fact, should give assistance where we believe it is in our broad foreign policy interests to do so, all factors considered.'' The ambassador said nothing of the Zionism-racism resolution and Arab statements, made later, that some members of Congress wanted to penalize nations that did not follow the U.S. line. In Decemb is chairman. ``We have a list of who the aid recipients are and how the vote was, and do they understand their aid is in jeopardy?'' Moynihan said. ``I mean, enough is enough. ``The Soviet Union ... no longer rewards that behavior. Have they learned it and do they know that this country is angry about that because they have put peace in jeopardy in a place they had no business bothering in? ``What does it mean to Chile? What does it mean to Sri Lanka? Whose business is it in the Ivory Coast to cause instability in the Middle East?'' Moynihan called the document ``a low point'' in U.N. behavior and an attempt to politicize the General Assembly. Nearly 70 percent of political resolutions received unanimous support in the 44th General Assembly last year, according to the latest voting report. That compares with 64 percent in 1988, 60 percent in 1987 and 58 percent in 1986. It said other U.N. members voted with the United States 23.3 percent of the time on the 16 issues, which ranged from the invasion of Panama to the annual question of accepting Israel's credentials. When all General Assembly votes are examined, the figure declines to 16.9 percent. Some U.N. diplomats say voting the same way does not guarantee an identical point of view. They also suggest that, if more countries are voting with the United States, changes in U.S. policy may be the reason.
AP881008-0031 	X	Nearly 350,000 Chileans took to the streets in a joyous rally to celebrate President Augusto Pinochet's defeat in a referendum, but at least 40 people were injured in violent clashes with police. Half a dozen people lay on the street behind Santiago's national palace Friday evening after police fired tear gas and water cannons at a crowd of several hundred anti-government demonstrators and then charged, nightsticks swinging. The demonstrators had come from the peaceful rally at an outdoor park, where the crowd estimated by police at 350,000 swayed and sang to popular Chilean music. About 18 foreign reporters also were injured Friday in the demonstration at the national palace and other incidents, which they described as unprovoked attacks by police. At least six were treated at clinics for head injuries. Earlier Friday, soldiers at an army barracks near the rally site fired birdshot and pellets at passengers in cars who flashed the victory sign at them, Radio Cooperativa reported. Fifteen people were injured, including one who underwent surgery to remove a pellet from his head, the radio said. A spokesman for the Santiago Central Emergency Hospital told The Associated Press that nine people were treated there for gunshot wounds, and a tenth was taken to a neurological hospital for surgery. A spokesman for the National Police said there was no one available to comment on the incidents. Friday's rally was organized by the opposition political groups that urged Chileans to vote ``no'' in Wednesday's referendum in which Pinochet, 72, lost his bid to remain president until 1997. His defeat sets the stage for presidential elections in December 1989 and the inauguration in March 1990 of the first freely elected president since Pinochet, commander of the army, toppled Salvador Allende in a bloody coup in 1973. Opposition leaders want Pinochet to move up the date of next year's elections, and vowed Friday to press that demand even though the aging commander-in-chief firmly rejected it Thursday during a speech broadcast nationwide. ``If we (opposition groups) join together with more force, I think the situation will change,'' said moderate Socialist Ricardo Lagos, a leader of the 16-group opposition coalition. ``You have to give the defeated a couple of days to recover from the shock.'' Many of the 3.8 million Chileans who voted against Pinochet also want early elections. ``Chi Chi Chi. Le Le Le. Get Out Pinochet,'' chanted the crowd at the rally. Funerals for two people killed during anti-government demonstrations Thursday night were set for today. Police acknowleged they shot a 31-year-old man and said a 14-year-old boy was shot by an unidentified gunman, police said. Two others who were shot by unidentified gunmen was hospitalized in serious condition Friday, police said, adding that eight officers were injured in clashes with demonstrators Thursday. Dozens of people were arrested Thursday and Friday. Most were released after brief detentions. Among the foreign journalists injured were Christopher Morris, an American freelance photographer for Newsweek, and Liliana Nieto, an American photographer for the Long Island, N.Y. daily Newsday. They and at least three others were treated at Santa Maria Clinica for head injuries. A group of about 50 foreign journalists, mostly Latin American, walked to a National Police station and filed a complaint protesting ``the lamentable events against the dignity of reporters ... by national police and other security forces'' and asked for guarantees of their safety. Eva Miranda of Argentina, a spokeswoman for the journalists, said two reporters _ Eduardo Sanjuan and Jordy Villaroel from TV-3 in Barcelona, Spain _ were hospitalized Friday after they were beaten by police.
AP900524-0109 	X	Kelsey Grammer of ``Cheers'' was jailed Thursday for a drunken driving probation violation. The 35-year-old actor, who plays brainy psychiatrist Frasier Crane on the hit NBC series, surrendered to the Van Nuys Muncipal Court and was taken immediately to County Jail. He showed up in court with a toothbrush stuck in his shirt pocket. Since his February 1988 conviction for drunken driving, he has failed to make several court appearances to prove he completed a drug rehabilitation program. Municipal Court Commissioner Patricia Schwartz last week ordered Grammer to serve a 30-day sentence for failing to attend the program and failing to serve 10 days on a state road crew. The commissioner also ordered Grammer to show up in court Thursday with proof he served at least one day of work on a California Department of Transportation road cleanup crew and enrolled in a 90-day drug rehab program. Documentation presented by Grammer on Thursday established he had completed those obligations, the court clerk said. Grammer still faces possible possession of cocaine charges. In April 1988, police stopped his car for expired license tags and a routine check showed an arrest warrant had been issued for missing a court appearance. While riding in the police car, a packet of cocaine fell from his pocket, officers said. Earlier this month, Grammer surrendered to authorities on arrest warrants involving both the drunken driving and cocaine arrests. The incarceration shouldn't affect production of the show, which is currently shut down between seasons.
AP900618-0029 	X	Last month, Communist North Korea turned over what it said were the remains of five U.S. servicemen killed in the Korean War. Now American officials say they're not sure whose remains they have. The remains were handed over to to a U.S. congressional delegation in an emotional Memorial Day ceremony in the truce village of Panmunjom in what was billed as the first return of U.S. Korean War dead since 1954. Only two of the five bodies were identified by name by the North Koreans, based on dogtags they said were found with them. They were U.S. Army 1st Lt. Jack J. Saunders, 27, of Ogden, Utah and Army Cpl. Arthur Leo Seaton, 20, of Chester, Pa. But the United Nations Command said today that the bodies, which were sent to the Army's Central Identification Laboratory in Honolulu for identification, were not those of Saunders and Seaton. ``While North Korea has indicated name association for two of the five remains, dental and physical characteristics of the remains were compared with the dental and physical records of the those two individuals, with negative results,'' the command said. The command said its findings were preliminary, but said it did not appear that the other remains returned were those of Saunders or Seaton either. ``Until the identification process is complete, we can't even be sure they were the remains of Americans,'' the command added. The soldiers' relatives have been told of the findings, the command said. The other three sets of remains were not identified by North Korea, but it said at the time of the return that they were believed to be those of another Army servicemen and two U.S. Air Force members. All five were believed to have been prisoners of war who died in Hwanghae Pukto province, south of North Korea's capital of Pyongyang. Saunders and Seaton had been listed as missing in February 1951, the Pentagon said. According to U.S. military, 8,172 U.S. soldiers remain unaccounted for from the war. The return of the remains was widely seen as a sign of healing and reconciliation after decades of emnity, an effort by North Korea to improve relations with the United States. The two countries do not have diplomatic ties. The United Nations Command says 33,629 U.S. soldiers were killed and 103,284 wounded in the war. More than 2 million Koreans were killed. The 16-nation command, led by an American general, was formed at the outbreak of the 1950-53 Korean War to help South Korea repel invaders from the North. There were large-scale returns of remains of U.S. war dead in 1953 and 1954. Then, after years of no returns, the North Koreans announced May 14 that they would turn over the remains of the five. Ho Jong, North Korean's deputy permanant representative at its U.N. mission, said at the time that the Communist government was prepared to discuss the return of more remains. He said the move was an ``eloquent illustration'' of North Korea's wilingness to ``settle pending issues with the U.S. government in a good way.'' North Korea acknowledged for the first time in January 1988 that it was still holding the remains of U.N. Command war dead.
AP901007-0034 	X	Four hunger strikers, who lost a total of 151 pounds protesting the U.S. training of Salvadoran soldiers, ended their 35-day fast Sunday after doctors warned of permanent health damage. ``Our cause continues,'' said the Rev. Roy Bourgeois, a Roman Catholic priest from Lutcher, La., after the strikers ended their fast at a morning news conference. ``The bread we received today is nourishment for us to recommit ourselves.'' Bourgeois was among nine protesters who began the fast Sept. 3, praying, carrying signs and marching outside Fort Benning. The group demanded that the United States cut all military aid to El Salvador and stop training Salvadoran soldiers at the base's Army School of the Americas. The United States is spending some $315 million in aid to El Salvador this year, much of it economic and food aid for an economy racked by a decade-old civil war with leftist guerrillas. A Democratic task force has pressed the Bush administration for restrictions in next year's planned $85 million in military aid to the country in wake of investigations into the slayings of six Jesuit priests in the capital of San Salvador in November 1989. Five of the original protesters dropped the fast over the last two weeks. Remaining were Bourgeois; Jim Barnett, a Dominican priest who served in El Salvador and plans to return now; Charlie Liteky of Washington, D.C., who won a Medal of Honor by pulling 20 wounded men from under enemy fire during the Vietnam War; and David Scott, an ex-Marine and Vietnam veteran from Detroit. Bourgeois said the four decided to end the strike after doctors warned that their weight loss could cause permanent health damage. He said Liteky was warned he could sustain severe kidney damage. Bourgeois said he lost 38 pounds, Liteky 40, Scott 35 and Barnett 38.
AP881104-0125 	X	The chief of the state Board of Insurance has been placed on leave while the board investigates allegations of foot-dragging in the largest insurance company insolvency case in Texas history. The board also said Thursday that the Travis County District Attorney's Office will review the agency's handling of the National County Mutual Fire Insurance insolvency case for any criminal wrongdoing. National County Mutual, a Dallas company with 125,000 auto insurance policyholders statewide, was declared insolvent last week and taken over by the insurance board. The company was $54 million in the debt. The board said recent criticism prompted it to initiate the investigation into the department's delay in taking control of National County Mutual. Several lawmakers complained the insurance board's staff knew of the company's problems since at least 1986 and should have moved earlier to protect its policyholders. During the examination, Commissioner Doyce Lee will be placed on leave, board members said. Board members said Lee recommended doing the independent audit and contacting the district attorney. But they said complaints by state lawmakers and consumer interest representatives forced them to put him on leave. Lee, 47, commissioner since 1985, said he agreed with the decision. ``I think it takes the pressure off of me and the board, and the agency can go about its business of regulating the industry. That will give time for the air to clear,'' he said. State Rep. John Gavin, D-Wichita Falls, chairman of the House Insurance Committee, supported the board's action. ``Most of the problem seems to be a lack of communication within the agency. The left hand and the right hand don't seem to work very well together,'' he said. Insurance board members attribute many of its problems to a major reorganization of the agency and rapid expansion of the staff, from about 850 employees to 1,300 in the past 18 months.
AP880422-0071 	X	Riot troops broke up the second anti-American demonstration in this capital in as many weeks, hurling tear gas grenades and firing into the air to stop about 200 protesters headed for the U.S. Embassy. At least one person was arrested. There were no immediate reports of injuries. The protesters, chanting ``Embassy, embassy!'' had been part of a crowd of about 2,000 people who marched peacefully to the National Congress earlier Thursday to demonstrate against the Honduran government and U.S. policy in the Central American country. Five people were killed during a riot April 7 in which about 2,000 demonstrators sacked and burned the U.S. Consulate and offices of the U.S. Information Service. Those protesters were angered over the deportation to the United States of a Honduran man accused of drug trafficking. About 50 riot police and army troops threw tear gas grenades into the 200 demonstrators as they advanced on the U.S. diplomatic mission Thursday night. The tear gas dispersed the protesters momentarily, but they regrouped, cutting off a small contingent of what appeared to be young and ill-trained troops who shot long bursts of fire from their M-16s into the air. The sound of shots sparked panic in the neighborhood. Some demonstrators taunted the troops and threw stones at the soldiers, who at intervals advanced behind metal shields. During the milelong march earlier Thursday, protesters chanted slogans calling for the expulsion of the approximately 1,100 U.S. troops based in Honduras, the removal of U.S.-backed Nicaraguan rebels from Honduras and the defense of the Honduran Constitution. They condemned the government of President Jose Azcona Hoyo and what they called his subservience to Washington. Honduras is the United States' staunchest ally in Central America. ``Yankee garbage, out of Honduras!'' and ``If the Yankees don't get out, in Honduras they will die!'' shouted the demonstrators. The marchers, most of them students, walked to the National Congress, where they listened to speeches condemning Azcona and the United States. About 500 demonstrators proceeded from there to the nearby Central Penitentiary, where they shouted for the release of inmates they consider political prisoners. A group then tried to go to the U.S. Embassy. One of the issues the marchers protested was the forced extradition of Juan Ramon Matta. Honduran police, working with U.S. agents, arrested Matta at his Tegucigalpa home on April 5 and had him flown to the United States. The Honduran Constitution prohibits the extradition of Honduran citizens. Matta is in federal prison in Marion, Ill., awaiting trial on drug trafficking charges. Matta is also wanted for questioning in the 1985 torture-slaying in Mexico of U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration agent Enrique Camarena Salazar. The U.S. Embassy estimates damage to the consulate building in the April 7 riot at between $4 million and $6 million and has asked for reimbursement from the Honduran government.
AP880818-0034 	X	Democratic vice presidential candidate Lloyd Bentsen is aiming his pitch at Democrats who strayed from the party to vote for Ronald Reagan as he tours his home state on behalf of the Democratic ticket. Although confident of his own popularity in Texas, Bentsen has to persuade some of his more conservative state supporters to vote for Michael Dukakis if Democrats are to win the state's 29 electoral votes. Bentsen on Wednesday appealed to those voters both in public and in private, as he traveled from the city of Fort Worth to the ranching area of San Angelo to a medical center in Lubbock to the oil town of Tyler. ``I know that this county is principally Republican,'' Bentsen told the 250 people gathered for a picnic at Fort Concho in San Angelo. ``I also know that Lloyd Bentsen carried this county by 58 percent last time.'' He told them that Dukakis' selection of a Texan for the ticket showed the Massachusetts governor was ``reaching out ... ready to listen to differing viewpoints.'' He then traveled to Lubbock, where he was greeted at the airport by a dozen supporters carrying ``Bentsen _ U.S. Senator'' placards _ but none of the Dukakis-Bentsen signs he'd like to see. He attended a demonstration of a new program to diagnose rural patients via television at the Texas Tech medical center, and then slipped away to meet with some 200 to 300 longtime supporters of his Senate campaigns to make his pitch in private. The meeting was closed to the press. Later, in Tyler, he met with another support group _ again out of the view of reporters. And again, Bentsen's Senate paraphernalia was in abundance but nothing for the Dukakis-Bentsen ticket. Robert Cargill of nearby Longview, one of those invited for the dinner sponsored by East Texans for Texas, said Dukakis' addition of Bentsen to the ticket might be enough for him to support it. ``Maybe,'' he said. Bentsen is also explaining to his constituents, both in his appearances and through television ads, why he is running at the same time for re-election to his Senate seat. Texas law allows him to do that, and if he didn't his Republican opponent, Rep. Beau Boulter, would automatically win a six-year term. If he won both races, Bentsen could resign from the Senate and force a special election, giving the Democrats a chance to hold the seat. As he traveled, Bentsen was peppered with questions about his personal wealth and his health, as a result of the release of records Monday by his Washington office. The disclosures showed the 67-year-old senator is in good health, although he has been treated for high cholesterol. His financial records revealed he has earned more than $3.8 million over the past five years, but they don't disclose his net worth. ``I don't know what my net worth is,'' he said. ``Frankly, I haven't made out a financial statement that has given me my net worth in a number of years.'' As he's been hunting for conservative votes, Bentsen also has been taking some shots at Republican George Bush's choice for a running mate, Indiana Sen. Dan Quayle. ``I guess we'll have an early season on quail,'' he told reporters. Bentsen brushed aside the age difference between him and the 41-year-old Quayle. ``It's not the miles on you, it's the depth of the tread,'' he said.
AP900925-0091 	X	The nation's economy nearly came to a standstill in the second quarter, edging up a feeble annual rate of 0.4 percent, the government said Tuesday. Many of the nation's top economists believe a recession is imminent - if not under way already. While White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said ``we don't believe we are in a recession right now,'' he acknowledged the latest Commerce Department report on the gross national product ``is certainly cause for concern. It's not good news.'' The department's revised report on the GNP - the nation's total output of goods and services - was the lowest since a 0.3 percent rate during the last quarter of 1989 and showed the economy weakening even before the Persian Gulf crisis. ``The economy was headed toward a recession before Iraq, and Iraq was just the nail in the coffin,'' said Allen Sinai, chief economist for the Boston Co. A recession ``seems inescapable,'' he said. Surveys following Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait - and the subsequent oil-price spiral - showed many top economists forecasting an imminent recession. The National Association of Business Economists reported Tuesday that more than half of the 71 professional forecasters responding to its survey in late August and early September said a recession already has begun or will begin in the fourth quarter of 1990 or the first quarter of 1991. And half of the top economists surveyed each month by Blue Chip Economic Indicators now believe the economy will enter a recession this year. ``In a sharp revision of earlier views, 50 percent of the 50 panel members replying ... now think the long-delayed recession will start this year,'' wrote R.J. Eggert, the newsletter's editor. ``Of those expecting the recession to begin this year, three believe it actually began in the second quarter, six expect the downturn to begin in the current quarter and 16 have pegged the fourth quarter of this year as the starting date.'' Sinai pointed to negative economic data already available for July and August and said, ``It looks like the recession started in the third quarter.'' ``The economy ground to a halt in the second quarter and is in the process of contracting right now,'' added Richard W. Rahn, chief economist for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. A price index tied to the GNP was unchanged at an annual rate of 3.9 percent in the second quarter. But with the surge in oil prices, inflation as measured in the Consumer Price Index jumped 0.8 percent in August alone. The higher prices will be reflected in the third-quarter GNP report. The price of oil before the Iraqi invasion was less than $20 a barrel. It reached a record $38 a barrel at one point on Monday. Since oil is used in producing so many consumer goods as well as for heating and transportation, any price increase not only slashes available funds needed to feed economic growth but also feeds inflation. The department originally had estimated the economy grew at a 1.2 percent rate from April through June, after advances of 1.7 percent in the first quarter and 2.5 percent in 1989 and 4.5 percent in 1988. But it said Tuesday that more complete data showed weaker net exports and lower inventory accumulation than first thought. The new data showed net exports declining by $9.2 billion rather than $4.5 billion, and inventories totaling $19.8 billion rather than $22.4 billion. ``But there really were no areas of strength,'' Sinai said. Consumer spending, which represents two-thirds of the nation's economic activity, rose just 0.2 percent, down from 1.1 percent in the first quarter. Business investment fell 4.7 percent after a 5 percent gain from January through March. Housing construction plunged 11.2 percent after advancing 15.1 percent in the first quarter. Government spending rose 6.2 percent but most of that was by the federal government. State and local spending was down 0.6 percent. If the economy were in a recession - generally described as two consecutive quarters of negative growth - it would end the nearly eight years of expansion that began after the 1981-82 downturn. The Commerce Department also reported today that after-tax corporate profits fell a revised 0.6 percent, worse than the 0.2 percent drop first reported and their poorest showing since a 5.9 percent decline in the third quarter of 1989. They had risen 0.5 percent in the first quarter and 1.7 percent in the final quarter of 1989. The various changes left the GNP growing by $4.5 billion in the second quarter. After removing the effects of inflation, the GNP totaled an annual rate of $4.16 trillion.
AP880630-0184 	X	The United States' foreign debt burden climbed to $368.2 billion in 1987, a sharp 36.8 percent rise over the previous year, as the country lengthened its lead as the world's largest debtor nation. The Commerce Department said the new debt total was $99 billion higher than the $269.2 billion in debt to foreigners that the United States owed at the end of 1986. The debt means that foreigners now own more in U.S. assets than Americans own abroad. For 1987, the government reported that foreign holdings in the United States increased to $1.54 trillion from $1.34 trillion at the end of 1986. American investments overseas totaled $1.17 trillion at the close of 1987, up from $1.07 trillion a year earlier. The difference between foreign investments in this country and American holdings overseas represents the $368.2 billion debt burden the country is carrying. The country now has a debt load greater than the combined total of Brazil, Mexico and Argentina, the Third World countries with the largest debt burdens. Critics have charged that the transformation of the United States from the world's largest creditor nation, a position it held as recently as 1983, to the world's biggest debtor is the chief failure of President Reagan's economic policies. Democrats, who hope to use the issue to their advantage in this year's presidential campaign, have charged that the burgeoning debt is eroding America's political and economic standing in the world. But the administration on Thursday sought to minimize the annual accounting of the country's investment position, contending that the figures were a sign of strength showing foreigners still believed America was an excellent place to invest. The United States had an investment surplus of $89.4 billion as recently as 1983. That surplus fell to $3.5 billion in 1984 and disappeared altogether in 1985, the year the country became a net debtor for the first time in 71 years with a debt of $110.7 billion. America's investment surplus has evaporated as the country ran up huge merchandise trade deficits during the 1980s, transferring billions of dollars into the hands of foreigners to pay for color televisions, stereo equipment and automobiles. These dollars, now in foreign hands, have been reinvested in the United States in everything from government bonds to real estate, triggering alarm bells and calls in Congress for curbs on foreign investment. Commerce Undersecretary Robert Ortner, briefing reporters Thursday, said the administration was adamantly opposed to curbs being placed on foreign investment in the United States. He also objected to comparing the United States to Third World countries, saying unlike Brazil, the United States owes its debt in its own currency. Private economists have contended that the growing debt burden has already begun to lower Americans' standard of living as more and more money must be transferred into the hands of foreigners in the form of interest payments and dividends. But Ortner said he believed most Americans regarded the entire debate as a ``big yawn.'' He said that even with the growth in foreign investment, the debt still represents only about 4 percent to 5 percent of the country's total assets. Ortner said foreigners own about 17 percent of U.S. Treasury securities and about 12 percent of manufacturing assets in the United States. ``I am not calling this report good news. I am trying to argue that it isn't terrible news,'' he said. Ortner refused to make any projection about how large the debt would grow in coming years, but private economists have estimated it could top $1 trillion in the early 1990s before it begins to level off. ``We are losing control over our own economy and our capital markets. This money doesn't come free,'' said Lawrence Chimerine, president of the WEFA Group, an economic consulting firm in Bala Cynwyd, Pa. C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics, said the United States has become hostage to the whims of foreign investors. He said foreign uneasiness with a plunging U.S. dollar and rising interest rates was an underlying cause of last October's stock market collapse. ``As long as the United States has to rely on foreign financing of such magnitudes, events could at literally any moment trigger a sharp turndown in our economy,'' he said. The Commerce Department report said that foreign direct investment in the United States, defined as ownership of at least a 10 percent stake in a company, had climbed 18.8 percent to $261.9 billion in 1987. The nation whose citizens had the biggest share of that investment was Britain, with $74.9 billion, followed by the Netherlands at $47 billion and Japan at $33.4 billion.
AP881027-0283 	X	Tenneco Inc. reported a third-quarter profit of $7 million on Thursday, compared with a $117 million loss posted for the same period last year. Tenneco's 1988 third-quarter earnings amounted to 2 cents per share. Revenue for the 1988 quarter was $3 billion, compared with $2.8 billion last year. Third-quarter results included an after-tax loss of $42 million from discontinued operations of Tenneco Oil Co., which is being sold to several different buyers for an estimated $7.3 billion. That compares with a loss from discontinued operations of $101 million for the same period last year, which includes the discontinued operations for 1987 of Tenneco Oil and the since-sold Tenneco West operations. ``We continue to work toward further strengthening of our remaining businesses and managing them for maximum earnings, cash generation and return on assets through a focus on cost containment, efficiency enhancement and accelerated disposition of underperforming assets within each of the divisions,'' said James L. Ketelsen, chairman and chief executive officer. For the nine months, net earnings totaled $224 million, or $1.39 per share, compared with a net loss of $42 million for the 1987 nine-month period. Revenue for the nine months was $9.6 billion this year and $8.7 billion last year. With the sale of its oil and gas properties, Tenneco's biggest units will be the profitable natural gas pipeline and its Case IH farm equipment manufacturing sector. Tenneco also maintains shipbuilding, automotive packaging and chemicals units.
AP900914-0286 	X	A United Airlines workers group announced Friday they were ending an agreement with an investment partnership to acquire the carrier's parent, UAL Corp. But in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the worker group, United Employment Acquisition Corp., said it was still interested in acquiring the Chicago-based airline. ``In light of current market conditions and in order to maximize the flexibility of UEAC to pursue any appropriate transaction for the acquisition of UAL, UEAC and Condor Partners L.P. entered into the termination agreement dated as of Sept. 13, 1990,'' the filing stated. The disclosure, which came after the markets closed Friday, ended an agreement between UEAC and Condor, an affiliate of Coniston Partners, to help UEAC, a company formed by United's unions, acquire UAL. Coniston Partners is the largest shareholder of UAL. Last October, news of the collapse of an employee-management leveraged buyout of UAL prompted a 190-point drop in the Dow Jones industrial average. Officials at United Airlines refused to comment on Friday's announcement by the employee group. A representative at Coniston Partners called the move a ``non-event'' and a ``tactical move.'' They refused to comment further.
AP880330-0310 	X	AB Volvo of Sweden announced that it has bought the bus division of British Leyland, making the major Scandinavian automaker a leading bus manufacturer in Western Europe. The purchase was announced Wednesday in London and Goteborg, Sweden. Volvo acquired the bus division from Leyland's management, which took over the company from state-owned Rover Group PLC in January 1987. Under the deal, Volvo acquires Leyland's two plants in Farington and Workington in northwestern England with a total of 1,850 employees. The plants make the well-known red double-decker buses. Volvo, Sweden's largest and most profitable industrial company which has diversified into food and trading, has already taken over General Motors Corp.'s truck division. Volvo's latest purchase makes it the world's second- largest bus maker after Daimler-Benz AG of West Germany. Volvo did not disclose the price it paid for Leyland's bus division, which will boost Volvo's bus production by 40 percent, to about 5,500 units a year. Volvo's bus output rose by 16 percent to a record 3,920 units last year, hitting maximum capacity at its main Swedish plant and a smaller facility in Sao Paulo, Brazil. The British bus subsidiary will continue to operate as an independent entity although Volvo plans to build about 1,000 of its own buses at the Leyland plants by 1990, a Volvo spokesman said. Volvo's main markets are Scandinavia, central Europe and South America, while Leyland buses are mostly marketed in Britain and in British Commonwealth countries. Volvo's bus division last year accounted for 2 billion Swedish kronor, around $340 million, or only 2.2 percent of the company's total sales of 92.5 billion kronor, or $15.7 billion. Leyland is expected to show a small profit for 1987 on sales of roughly 1 billion kronor, or about $170 million.
AP881209-0252 	X	David P. Bloom, the would-be financial adviser who bilked investors out of $15 million to fund a lavish lifestyle of expensive artworks, luxury cars and posh homes, was sentenced Friday to eight years in prison by a judge who called him ``amoral, not immoral.'' Asking the judge to give Bloom, 24, a shorter sentence than the three-year term handed master Wall Street criminal Ivan F. Boesky, Bloom's lawyer described him as a ``greedy young man and a product of our times.'' ``When he grew up, greed was on the ascendency,'' said the lawyer, David W. O'Connor. ``David Bloom shouldn't wind up being the scapegoat of the 1980s.'' But U.S. District Judge David N. Edelstein said he was imposing the stiff sentence because it was ``absolutely essential'' to send a message to those who act through ``greed and insatiable lust for despoiling innocent people.'' The high-living Bloom, whose massive swindle scheme earned him the title ``Wall Street Whiz Kid,'' pleaded guilty last March to one count each of mail fraud and securities fraud. Most of the investors he conned were friends of his parents, according to prosecutors. In a 15-page sentencing memo to the judge, Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert L. Plotz said Bloom ``victimized close friends of his parents'' and ``betrayed the trust not only of these friends but also of his parents.'' Noting that several of Bloom's victims had turned over pension plans and individual retirement accounts to him, the memo said Bloom ``took everything he could from people who loved him; in so doing, he exhibited a legal and moral depravity.'' ``I have betrayed my own sense of morality and values and betrayed the trust and love of numerous people around me,'' the short, bespectacled Bloom, standing with his hands crossed in front of him, told the judge. He conceded he was ``deserving of punishment'' but O'Connor urged the judge to show leniency because ``this is not Ivan Boesky or (convicted inside trader) Dennis Levine.'' Boesky, who pleaded guilty to securities law conspiracy and is cooperating with investigators, was sentenced to three years in prison last December. Levine, an investment banker caught in a massive insider trading scheme, was sentenced to two years in 1986. O'Connor called Bloom's crime ``a bizarre aberration,'' and told the judge that a stiff sentence was ``not going to discourage the next screwball who comes along.'' But Edelstein concluded Bloom was ``remorseless, completely lacking in conscience. He was a predator, completely insensitive.'' Edelstein sentenced Bloom to four years on each count and, in an unusual move, ordered the prison terms to run consecutively as spectators in the crowded courtroom gasped. ``He went on his way without any thought of the pain, suffering and misery he was inflicting,'' said a disgusted Edelstein. ``He was amoral, not immoral.'' The judge said Bloom had ``cannibalized his family and friends.'' He also ordered Bloom to make ``full restitution.'' No fine was imposed. Edelstein could have sentenced Bloom to 10 years in prison and $20 million in fines. According to prosecutors, the boyish-looking Bloom used deceit and fraud to parlay a college investment club into a multimillion-dollar investment operation with about 140 clients. Bloom, who was not registered as an investment adviser, wooed investors for his now-defunct Greater Sutton Investors Group Inc. by falsely claiming his clientele included the Sultan of Brunei, the Rockefeller family and entertainer Bill Cosby. A 1985 Duke University graduate with an art history degree, Bloom told clients he was putting their money into the stock market when he actually was using it to pay for a lavish lifestyle that included art works worth $5.5 million; an $830,000 condominium on Manhattan's Upper East Side; a Long Island beach house worth $1.9 million; and two cars _ an Aston-Martin convertible and a Mercedes-Benz _ worth $200,000. Among the paintings Bloom purchased with other people's money were works by John Sloan, Thomas Hart Benton, Mary Cassatt and John Singer Sargent. Bloom began sending his investors bogus account statements that claimed to show their securities holdings, according to the charges. Bloom also was charged with using new clients' funds to pay ``profits'' to older clients. Last January, the Securities and Exchange Commission brought civil charges against Bloom, who settled by agreeing to turn over his assets to a court-appointed receiver and to stay out of the securities industry for the rest of his life. Under the settlement, Bloom neither admitted nor denied the SEC allegations but criminal charges were brought in March. Bloom waived indictment and pleaded guilty March 31 to one count each of mail and securities fraud.
AP880729-0067 	X	Three Sinhalese extremists and a soldier were killed and militants torched buses on the first anniversary of an accord aimed at ending Tamil separatist violence, police said today. Most shops, offices and businesses were closed today in Colombo, the capital, and its surburbs. Police said people were afraid to open their businesses because of possible violence by Sinhalese radicals opposed to the Indian-brokered peace accord. A 24-hour curfew went into effect at 6 a.m. today in the island's south after radical Sinhalese nationalists called for a general strike. Residents in the northern city of Vavuniya, about 125 miles northeast of Colombo, said by telephone that Indian soldiers also declared curfews in some areas in the island's north and east until Sunday morning to prevent attacks by Tamil rebels. The peace accord is opposed both by Tamil rebels fighting for five years for independence in the north and east of the island and by the Peoples Liberation Front, an extremist group from the island's majority Sinhalese community. The Sinhalese say it makes too many concessions to the minority, while the Tamils say it does not meet their demands for independence. Three men were killed by police in separate incidents in which Sinhalese extremists tried to attack government property, a police spokesman said on condition of anonymity. He said a Sinhalese Sri Lankan soldier was fatally shot in a battle with extremists in Hambantota district in the south. In southern and central Sri Lanka, strongholds of the Sinhalese extremists, at least eight government-owned buses were set afire Thursday night and this morning, the police spokesman said. Electricity supplies to at least four towns in southern Sri Lanka were cut Thursday night after Sinhalese extremists bew up electrical transformers, he said. A railroad engineer was injured when his train was hit by a firebomb as it pulled into Colombo, police said. Only a few government-owned or private buses were seen running. In the island's north, nearly 50,000 Indian soldiers deployed under the peace accord were put on alert after Tamil rebels called for a demonstration to protest the peace pact. On Thursday, 14 Sinhalese farmers were killed by Tamil rebels near Padaviya village, about 100 miles northeast of Colombo. The peace accord, signed by India and Sri Lanka on July 29, 1987, calls for the government to grant limited autonomy to minority Tamils in exchange for the rebels giving up their fight for a separate Tamil nation. India agreed help disarm the Tamil rebels. But violence has persisted in the Tamil areas of the north and east because the main Tamil rebel group, the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, refused to accept the accord. India is involved in the conflict because of the sympathy of its own Tamil minority of 60 million for the island conflict. Before the peace pact was signed, Sri Lanka regularly accused India of training and supplying the rebels. More than 8,000 people have been killed since the ethnic war began in 1983. Tamils, who are mostly Hindus, make up 18 percent of Sri Lanka's 16 million people and say they are discriminated against by the Sinhalese. The Buddhist Sinhalese make up about 75 percent and control the government and the army. More than 400 people have been killed since the accord was signed in attacks blamed on Sinhalese extremists. Most of the victims have been government officials or members of the governing United National Party of President Junius R. Jayewardene, who signed the accord.
AP900329-0129 	X	The United States and the Soviet Union should review their nuclear fail-safe systems, the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee said Thursday. ``If nationalists or terrorists overran a Soviet nuclear storage site in one of the republics, would the superpowers coordinate their actions?'' Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., asked in a speech on the changing threat worldwide. Ethnic unrest in Azerbaijan and Lithuania's declaration of independence March 11 have led Moscow to resort to military force. The Bush administration, Nunn said, should urge the Soviet Union to join the United States in conducting separate, but parallel reviews, of fail-safe and control programs. Nunn also suggested using the Nuclear Risk Reductions Centers for talks about how the two superpowers could avoid an inadvertent nuclear war. In his second major speech in a week, Nunn acknowledged the lessening Soviet conventional threat and questioned whether the Bush administration is correctly characterizing the Soviet's modernization of its strategic forces. Defense Secretary Dick Cheney has said unequivocally that there has been no change in Soviet strategic forces and that the only change at all has been in improving their forces. ``The administration has tended to overstate its case,'' Nunn said. U.S. intelligence, he said, has found a cutback in the Soviet's Blackjack bomber production. In addition, the Soviets have ceased patrolling U.S. coasts with its Yankee-class SSBM and patrolling north of Canada with its nuclear-armed Bear-H bomber. In his speech, delivered on the Senate floor, Nunn also discussed: _His complaints last week that the administration's fiscal 1991 defense budget has several major holes Congress will fill if the Pentagon doesn't. Cheney disputed some of Nunn's allegations and said the Pentagon is accounting for rapid changes in Eastern Europe in fashioning a spending plan for fiscal 1992 to 1997. ``It is crucial to note, however, that Secretary Cheney made no claim that the administration's fiscal 1991 budget request reflects all these assumptions,'' Nunn said Thursday. Questioned about Nunn's comments, Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams said Thursday: ``It would be very difficult, if not _ dare one say _ imprudent, to send up a '91 budget on the basis of things that haven't happened yet. As events change, we will adjust our plans accordingly.'' _The likelihood of the Soviet launching a ``go-it-alone'' attack on Western Europe. The chances of such an offensive is remote, according to Nunn, who also said the Kremlin would have a difficult time re-establishing ``a credible threat of a large-scale conventional attack on NATO.'' _The dispute within the Bush administration over the potential for reversing the dramatic events in the Soviet Union and the Warsaw Pact nations. CIA Director William Webster has told Congress it will be difficult; Cheney disagrees. Shortly after Webster's comments, Cheney said the CIA director's testimony ``was not helpful'' to Bush's policies.
AP900916-0022 	X	Police in western Bangladesh opened fire on transport workers striking against alleged police harassment and 15 people were injured, according to news reports Sunday. The indefinite strike halted bus traffic in 16 districts and stranded thousands of bus passengers, the government-owned Dainik Bangla newspaper reported. Police and demonstrators clashed in Pabna, 75 miles northwest of Dhaka, the paper said, but it did not specify how many of the injured were protesters and how many were police. It also did not say how many were wounded by the gunfire. Police said they opened fire when the workers tried to storm an office of the road transport authority. On Saturday, 50 people were injured when pro-government workers and opposition-backed laborers clashed, using homemade bombs and knives, over the ouster of a union leader in Adamjee, 10 miles south of Dhaka, police said.
AP901208-0079 	X	A series of aftershocks jolted northern Japan on Saturday following several earthquakes, and police reported landslides, cracked roads and damaged buildings. There were no reports of injuries from the series of quakes Friday evening near Takada, 140 miles north of Tokyo. A total of 10 aftershocks had been recorded following the first and strongest earthquake Friday evening, which registered 5.5 on the Richter scale, the Central Meteorological Agency said. No Richter readings were available for the aftershocks. All the quakes on Friday were centered at a depth of about three miles in western Niigata Prefecture along the coast of the Sea of Japan, it said. Police said the earthquakes caused a 75-foot section of a road to sink, set off 30 landslides, and created cracks in roads and the ground at 60 locations. The hardest-hit area was Takayanagimachi, a town of 4,000 people, where a dozen homes suffered minor damage, including broken furniture and window panes, police said. The Richter scale is a measure of ground motion as recorded on seismographs.
AP880221-0063 	X	A shot fired from an army watchtower near the Irish border killed a young civilian Sunday, according to a military statement that expressed regret at his death. Witnesses said 23-year-old Aidan McAnespie was shot in the back while walking to a regular weekly Gaelic football game in Aughnacloy, County Tyrone, near the border with the Irish Republic. The Dublin government immediately requested details of the shooting, which comes at a time when relations between Britain and the Irish Republic have been severely strained. The Royal Ulster Constablulary said a soldier at the vehicle checkpoint was in military custody and the shooting was under investigation. An army statement said it ``deeply regrets'' the death, which it said occurred when a weapon was fired from an observation tower at the permanent military checkpoint near the village. McAnespie, who lived in Aughnacloy, was said to have worked at Monaghan in the Irish Republic, according to Press Association, the British domestic news agency. Relations between Britain and Ireland have been severely strained recently after two British decisions concerning sectarian warfare in the predominantly Protestant British province of Northern Ireland. Britain's Court of Appeal upheld the convictions of six Irishmen sentenced to life in prison for two Irish Republican Army bombings that killed 21 people in 1974. The court rejected arguments that new evidence undermined the confessions and forensic findings that sent them to prison. The IRA is fighting to end British rule in Northern Ireland and unite the province with the Irish Republic, which is predominantly Roman Catholic. Britain also decided last month not to prosecute any Northern Ireland police officers connected with the police shootings of unarmed Roman Catholics in an alleged ``shoot-to-kill'' policy against Irish nationalist guerrillas.
AP900128-0061 	X	Julia Staniszewski says she hadn't seen some of her neighbors in this wooded suburb for at least a year. But when Avianca Flight 52 crashed thunderously into a nearby hillside, they came running. ``The radio went off and everything went dark but there was absolute silence,'' the 85-year-old longtime resident said Sunday, recalling, as did others, the eerie absence of engine noise before the crash. ``I stayed in bed until neighbors came looking for me 15 minutes later to check that I was OK.'' The Boeing 707 clipped the tall oaks near Mrs. Staniszewski's house before breaking into pieces and coming to rest in a mess of twisted steel, killing 73 people aboard the craft and injuring 86. Three days later, residents of this affluent community of about 340 people 35 miles east of New York City say the enormity of the tragedy is just beginning to hit home. ``We were on automatic pilot until last night,'' said Richard Hassanein, whose home sits two houses from the wreckage. ``We couldn't think about ourselves.'' Hassanein's wife, Adrienne, said she still feels numbed. Mrs. Hassanein was one of the first to reach the scene after the red-and-orange jet crashed. ``It sounded and felt like an earthquake,'' she said. ``The scene was terrible. It was almost surreal. You don't forget something like that.'' The plane tore part of the rear deck off a house, but damaged no other homes on Long Island's North Shore. Even so, the community will never fully recover from the emotional impact, Mrs. Hassanein said. On Sunday, residents dressed in running gear, many with dogs in tow, looked on in disbelief as investigators dug for clues. Most suitcases and other personal effects were hauled away Saturday, but the odd shoe or piece of clothing remained amid broken seats, inflated life vests, oxygen masks and bits of fuselage. Police guarding the wreckage looked around in dismay, occasionally picking up an item of clothing or passport, then silently letting it fall. ``I don't want to be here,'' one officer said. ``No one does.'' The quiet search recalled the strange silence that preceded Thursday's crash. All four engines stopped before the plane went down, indicating it may have run out of fuel. ``I was paying bills, watching television and listening to the wind, when I heard a thud. I thought lightning had struck,'' said Marjorie Isaksen, whose home sits above the crash site. Mrs. Isaksen said she heard about the tragedy about 15 minutes later when a friend phoned to check on her. ``My reaction was utter disbelief,'' she said. ``I didn't really realize what had happened until I knelt beside an injured man lying on a stretcher and lay my coat over him,'' Mrs. Isaksen said. ``His face was swollen and bloody. I cried when I was alone with him.'' Mrs. Isaksen said, however, that the tragedy still hasn't ``set into my brain.''
AP880922-0002 	X	A new generation of skyscrapers is about to alter the skyline of Atlanta, previously dismissed as sterile and nondescript. Even homegrown architect John Portman, whose glass towers and soaring atriums for years defined Atlanta and who in the past criticized post-modern architecture as a step backward, has given a nod to the style in his latest project, a 60-story office building planned for downtown Atlanta. Much of the excitement over the pending transformation of the capital of the New South started last fall with the opening of the 50-story IBM building. Officially called One Atlantic Center, it is a slender, post-modern tower of stone with tall arched entryways and Gothic finials, dramatically crowned by a 100-foot-high, eight-sided copper pyramid topped by a golden lantern. Rush-hour traffic on Interstate 85 slows to a cautious crawl as drivers gaze its way. At night, the lights in its crown command attention from all over town. Architecture writers have used words like ``gracious,'' ``truly wonderful,'' ``serene,'' ``imposing'' and ``glamorous'' to describe the tower. ``It certainly projects a vibrance to the rest of the world,'' said Roy Cooper, vice president for economic development with the Atlanta Chamber of Commerce. ``It's just beautiful. Everybody's just staggered by it.'' The tower is a dramatic departure from the glass boxes common in modern architecture and contrasts with the sleek look of most of the city's tallest buildings. Its influence shows up in at least three other skyscrapers going up in Atlanta, and the design of the proposed Promenade skyscraper complex was altered to complement the rose-colored IBM tower. New York architect John Burgee, whose firm designed the IBM building with design consultant Philip Johnson, won't take credit for transforming Atlanta's skyline. But he said the city's image, as defined by the way it looks, is undergoing a change. ``Atlanta has been looking for its identity,'' Burgee said in a telephone interview from his New York office. ``It's an historical city (but) its architecture and image is not strictly historical. You think of Atlanta and you think of `Gone With The Wind.' Now, there is an attempt to come up with a visual image. ``We all know Peachtree Street, but you don't think of its buildings,'' he said. ``Like in New York, the Empire State Building; Chicago, the Sears building; San Francisco, the TransAmerica building. Atlanta doesn't have that. It's moving toward that, very definitely.'' Burgee and Johnson also are behind One Ninety One Peachtree Tower, a post-modern skyscraper planned for downtown Atlanta. Another planned project grouped in the ``Son of IBM'' building spurt is the Promenade in the tree-lined, historic Midtown section, a complex of three office buildings and a hotel being developed by AT&T and the Atlanta-based Landmarks Group. When unveiled last year, it was designed with an exterior of glittering green glass. But when Promenade officials saw the excitement over the nearby IBM Tower, its architects, Thompson, Ventulett & Stainback, redrew the plans to use rose glass above rose-toned stone and topped with a gray steel spire. The most recently announced skyscraper is a downtown giant by Portman, whose imprint is already deeply felt in Atlanta, primarily through the Peachtree Center and the towering cylindrical Westin Peachtree Plaza Hotel. Portman's new building is slated to begin construction next year and, at 60 stories, will eclipse One Atlantic as the Southeast's tallest building. Unveiling the design in May, Portman said it was ``respectful of the past but, like this city, is audacious and bold and forward-looking _ the beginning of post-post-modern architecture.'' Dale Durfee, a professor of architecture at Georgia Tech, said completion of the IBM tower signaled the acceleration of a change in the look of the city that began a decade ago. ``Atlanta was pretty much plain vanilla,'' he said, ``with no development of architectural significance.'' Burgee echoed that appraisal, saying, ``It was pretty nondescript. It might be anyplace. If they took you (to Atlanta) blindfolded and took off the blindfold, you wouldn't have a clue where you are.'' Durfee said that 10 years ago, Atlanta was groping to form an identity and had no demand for the type of buildings now are going up. Today, however, companies want sophistication in their office buildings, Durfee said, and corporate sponsorship of building projects has changed the rules of skyscraper financing. Some say that all the building activity simply makes good business sense. ``Sure, there's competitive prestige. Good architecture is good business,'' said Truman Hartshorn, chairman of the geography department at Georgia State University and a specialist in urban affairs. A good-looking building, he said, ``is easier to sell to the financing people as well as the tenants.'' Hartshorn said he expects the new projects in Atlanta will bring special recognition. ``I think it's going to open some eyes,'' he said. ``We have prestige with our cultural buildings, but I don't know that our office buildings are that distinctive nationally. ``These aren't just ultra post-modern. They're classic. They're different.''
AP900606-0089 	X	Here are excerpts from recent editorials in newspapers in the United States and abroad. June 4 The Dallas Morning News on honorariums: Apparently, the political liabilities connected with accepting speaking fees have become too great for 34 senators. A spot check by Congressional Quarterly magazine has found that the lawmakers are either declining all honorariums from outside groups or directing the money to charity. That number is 15 more than last year. For many voters, the practice among lawmakers of accepting speaking fees from the same special interests that seek to influence them has become a striking symbol of what is wrong with Congress. Last year, House members, in exchange for a pay raise, voted to ban honorariums beginning in 1991. But the Senate refused to follow suit. Instead, the senators adopted a wimpish plan to abolish speaking fees gradually, reducing the amount they can keep each year by the amount they receive in cost-of-living salary increases. Judging by the Congressional Quarterly survey, however, a fair number have taken it upon themselves to end the payoffs immediately. Good for them. ... Ideally, the Senate will come to its senses soon and ban honorariums altogether, with or without a pay raise. Until then, one can only hope that these examples of self-denial catch on.
AP880520-0236 	X	President Reagan asked the Senate on Friday to ratify a United Nations treaty against torture and ``demonstrate unequivocally our desire to bring an end to the abhorrent practice.'' Reagan said, however, that if the treaty is ratified he will declare that the United States does not recognize the competence of an international committee it sets up to investigate charges of systematic torture in the United States. ``I believe that a final United States decision as to whether to accept such competence of the committee should be withheld until we have had an opportunity to assess the committee's work,'' the president said. The treaty was unanimously adopted by the U.N. General Assembly in 1984 and was signed by the United States last month. ``It marks a significant step in the development during this century of international measures against torture and other inhuman treatment or punishment,'' Reagan said. ``Ratification of the convention by the United States will clearly express United States opposition to torture, an abhorrent practice unfortunately still prevalent in the world today.'' The treaty requires each signatory country to either prosecute torturers who are found in its territory or extradite them to other countries for prosecution. ``By giving its advice and consent to ratification of this convention, the Senate of the United States will demonstrate unequivocally our desire to bring an end to the abhorrent practice of torture,'' the president said. Reagan also submitted to the Senate for ratification a treaty signed in Montreal in February, under auspices of the International Civil Aviation Organization, providing for international cooperation in combatting terrorism at airports.
AP880504-0163 	X	A federal appeals court today extended the midnight deadline for the government's illegal alien amnesty program in New York state, giving many aliens with U.S.-born children on welfare another two weeks to register. The state has been seeking a 60-day extension and the court's order will apply until another hearing the week of May 16, said Chris Braithwaite, a spokesman for the state attorney general's office. The amnesty program allows illegal aliens who have lived in the United States since Jan. 1, 1982, to apply for legal status and U.S. citizenship. The deadline runs out at midnight tonight, but New York state asked for the extension because there was initial confusion about the program's application to parents of U.S.-born children on welfare. The order by the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals applies only to the illegal alien program in New York state. It was not immediately determined whether it would apply to all aliens or only those with U.S.-born children. The Immigration and Naturalization Service urged those eligible for legalization to apply by midnight tonight ``as it is not clear what the impact of this order may be.'' The court told lawyers for the state and the INS to work out specifics of the order, including which illegal aliens would be affected, Braithwaite said. If the sides could not agree on an order this afternoon the court said it would issue its own order, he said. Greg Leo, an INS spokesman in Washington, said he understood that any order ``will only apply to a limited class of people ... who may be ineligible for amnesty because their children have received AFDC benefits.'' The action may only affect several hundred people in New York, Leo said. The issue arose because aliens who are likely to need public assistance, such as welfare, are among those who cannot be accepted in the amnesty program. The state asked whether poor illegal aliens with U.S.-born children who receive welfare in the Aid to Families with Dependent Children program can qualify for amnesty. Technically the children are the welfare recipients, because they are U.S. citizens. Braithwaite said there are ``a lot'' of such families, but he had no count. The INS initially said the parents of such children would not be eligible, then said they would be eligible, Braithwaite said. Because of the confusion, the state sued the INS for a 60-day extension of the deadline and a $100,000 advertising campaign explaining the policy. Leo cautioned that illegal aliens not involved in the litigation should apply by tonight's midnight deadline. ``INS strongly urges anyone eligible for amnesty to apply by midnight tonight as this is the deadline for virtually all potential applicants,'' he said. ``It would be tragic for people who are eligible for this program not to come forward by midnight on the basis of misinformation.''
AP880330-0012 	X	President Reagan says former national security aides Oliver North and John Poindexter are not being presumed innocent on conspiracy, theft and fraud charges in the Iran-Contra scandal. ``Someplace along the line, many of us have forgotten that you are innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt,'' Reagan told a group of regional reporters on Tuesday. ``What has happened, I think, in the case is it's just everyone is accepting guilt on the basis of accusation.'' North, Poindexter and arms dealers Richard V. Secord and Albert A. Hakim pleaded innocent last week to charges that they defrauded the government of more than $17 million by diverting profits from the Iran arms sales to the Nicaraguan Contra rebels. Although he once again spoke out on behalf of his indicted former aides, Reagan backed away somewhat on Tuesday from his assertion last week that North is still an American hero. Reagan said he was referring to the Marine's wartime record. ``I think I was too short in my remark when I answered the question,'' Reagan said. ``I should have augmented that and said why, and that is: Look at the record and at the honors and the medals that have been awarded him for bravery in combat,'' Reagan said. ``And I have to say those were heroic actions and he is a valid hero.'' North, who has announced he will retire from the Marine Corps in May, received a Silver Star and two Purple Hearts in the Vietnam War. He said after his indictment that he might attempt to subpoena the ``highest-ranking'' government officials to testify in his defense. Reagan declined to say on Tuesday whether he would testify on North's behalf.
AP900522-0229 	X	The government and the ruling party on Tuesday adopted a new economic policy guideline aimed at meeting promises made in recent trade talks with the United States. The new guideline calls for opening Japan's markets to more foreign goods, making fiscal and budgetary policy changes to conform with other trading partners, and increasing foreign aid. ``We must push forward the adjustment of Japan's economic structure in order to improve the nation's standard of living and promote consumer benefits in accordance with world economic growth,'' said a government statement. The policy was adopted by the Government-LDP Economic Structural Adjustment Board, which consists of bureaucrats and lawmakers from the governing Liberal Democratic Party. It marks a major revision in the direction suggested for Japan's economy. A 1986 guideline, known as the Maekawa Report, urged a drastic shift from heavy reliance on exports to increased domestic demand to reduce the country's trade surpluses. In recent months, however, a number of government and LDP panels have called for less emphasis on expanding domestic demand and more on international cooperation and benefits for Japanese consumers, who now pay some of the world's highest prices. The new guideline suggests that Japan's economy already has been transformed to a domestic orientation and notes that its trade surplus has been decreasing. ``For us to assume a role and responsibilities compatible with our position in the international community, ... it is an extremely important theme for Japan to promote the adjustment of our economy to a more internationally cooperative style,'' it said. In addition to improved living standards, the guideline calls for shorter working hours and longer vacations. In its interim report on the U.S.-Japan Structural Impediment Initiative talks, released in April, Tokyo promised to streamline its complicated distribution system, tighten the anti-monopoly law and increase government spending on public works to help improve the nation's standard of living. The report said such measures would lead to a reduction of Japan's $49 billion surplus in trade with the United States. The new guideline, like the trade report, calls for easing the Large Scale Store Law, which U.S. trade negotiators say makes it hard for foreign stores to open outlets in Japan.
AP901029-0206 	X	EDITOR'S NOTE - The kibitzers this night include a playwright from Spain, a drug dealer, a Queens housewife, a master chess player from Harlem, a biker and assorted yuppies. They are in a hotel next door to the old theater where Garry Kasparov and Anatoly Karpov sit hunched over their chessboard. They watch the action on closed-circuit TV and debate the players' every move, their politics, their diet, their very nose scratchings.
AP901106-0004 	X	Pianist Leon Fleisher's tragedy was losing his right hand to a crippling muscle disorder. His triumph was showing the world that it hardly mattered. After building a new life for himself in the past quarter-century as a conductor and teacher, Fleisher, 62, returned to the concert stage last weekend for a bravura piano recital featuring solo works for the left hand only. His homecoming performance in the Kennedy Center's crowded Terrace Theater was praised by music critics with the same enthusiasm that greeted his Carnegie Hall debut with the New York Philharmonic in 1944, when he was a gangly 16-year-old from San Francisco. Several works on Saturday night's program were written for other great pianists who, like Fleisher, were unable to use their right hands. They included Russian composer Alexander Scriabin, who suffered the same ailment as Fleisher, and Viennese pianist Paul Wittgenstein, who lost his right arm in World War I. It was Fleisher's first solo recital in a major concert hall since he was stricken more than 25 years ago. When Fleisher withdrew from the concert stage in April 1965, on the eve of a European tour with the Cleveland Orchestra, his right-hand fingers had become weak, numb and beyond control. Once hailed by The New York Times as ``the finest American pianist of his (and probably any) time,'' Fleisher was devastated. ``I had the sense that my whole world had dropped out from under me,'' he said. ``My whole life's direction pointed toward the abyss. For two years, I struggled with, `Why did this happen to me?' I was wallowing in self-pity.'' He was rescued by Dina Koston, a former student at the Peabody Institute in Baltimore, who persuaded him to become co-director and conductor of the Kennedy Center's resident chamber music ensemble, the Theater Chamber Players, in 1968. ``She came up with a suggestion that took me out of that abyss and showed me I could still function as a musician,'' Fleisher said. Thus began his resurrection as guest conductor of many of the world's major symphony orchestras, an opera conductor, associate conductor of the Baltimore Symphony and artistic director of the Berkshire Music Center at Tanglewood, Mass. Meanwhile, Fleisher completed 30 years of teaching at Peabody last spring, and is busy recording the known repertoire of left-hand piano concertos with the Boston Symphony. He plans to write his memoirs under the title, ``Eighty-Eight Keys And No Lock.'' Doctors have never diagnosed his affliction, which he dismisses as ``writer's cramp.'' A subsequent bout of carpal tunnel syndrome, a painful nerve disorder of the wrist and hand which Scriabin and Robert Schumann also suffered, was cured surgically. These ailments are common to professional pianists, typists and others whose work requires sustained, repetitive wrist motions. ``Man was not created for the computer keyboard or the piano,'' Fleisher said. Fleisher said he practiced ``incorrectly, even stupidly,'' for six to eight hours a day for 20 years until the muscles of his right hand ``just curled up and said, don't beat on me anymore.'' The damage was irreversible. No matter. Fleisher is too busy savoring his rich new life to waste time fretting over the past. ``I've learned a lot,'' he said. ``What you think are the most important things in the world are not the most important. What's important are relations with people, nature, the world around us. That's where it's at.'' Fleisher said his handicap has ``somehow opened my ears,'' making him a good listener for the first time in his life. He believes it also has improved his teaching by forcing him to verbalize his musical concepts, instead of demonstrating them on the keyboard. The ecstasy of conducting has been a revelation, he said. He recalled conducting the Boston Symphony in a performance of Rachmaninoff's Symphony No. 2. ``It took my breath away,'' he said. ``It was like riding the crest of a tidal wave. It was incredible.'' He also enjoyed ``some extraordinary moments'' conducting a community orchestra in Annapolis, Md., whose amateur musicians ``got so caught up that they rose to levels they never knew they were capable of.'' Just as he has finally learned to play the piano properly, using forearms and shoulders rather than hammering away with curled fingers, Fleisher has become aware of the hazards of such ordinary objects as doorknobs. ``It's a totally unhealthy design,'' he said, curving his fingers around an imaginary doorknob and twisting his wrist. ``Door handles are much better.''
AP881029-0109 	X	Michael Dukakis opened a 10-day final push in his underdog bid for the presidency Saturday by promising a crowd of about 10,000 at a rousing rally that he would fight for American farmers and workers. Dukakis stopped on a trip to California to visit Sioux Falls for a ``Salute to Rural America,'' a fairgrounds event with an audience including supporters bused in from Iowa, North Dakota, Nebraska and Minnesota. ``They want you to forget their record,'' Dukakis told a boisterous crowd of about 10,000 people. ``Rural Americans have lost a lot, but they haven't lost their memories.'' The Democratic presidential nominee blamed Reagan administration farm policies for a drop in farm exports, falling crop prices and the loss of 250,000 family farms in the past eight years. Dukakis promised an administration sympathetic to small towns and said rival George Bush instead wanted to give a $40 billion tax break to the nation's wealthy. ``They want to help the people who live high off the hog,'' Dukakis said. ``We want to help the people in this country who raise the hogs.'' Dukakis, surrounded by elected officials from the five states, told his audience that the ``Republican philosophy is the fewer farms the better.'' ``Every farm and ranch in this country counts, and every small town is somebody's home,'' Dukakis said to enthusiastic applause. Dukakis ridiculed Bush's promise to wage a ``kinder, gentler'' campaign in the final weeks, a pledge Bush made just before resuming harsh attacks on Dukakis. ``I wish his handlers would make up his mind,'' Dukakis said. Sioux Falls was the first stop for Dukakis on a final-push campaign trip that will bring him to an average of four cities a day. Still well behind Bush in most polls but encouraged by a recent tightening of the race, Dukakis is keeping a high television profile during the waning days of the campaign to help him spread his message. Dukakis tailored his Populist appeal to rural and farm issues, accusing the Reagan administration of turning its back on family farmers and rural communities. He also criticized a Friday decision by the administration to refuse a request by U.S. rice farmers to investigate Japan's trading practices and said the decision was an ominous harbinger of the trade policies Bush would bring to the White House. ``This decision is only the latest instance of the Republicans' refusal to stand up for American jobs and American farmers in world markets,'' Dukakis said in a statement. ``The facts are so unequivocal that this decision raises grave doubts about the Republicans' intention to enforce the new trade act.'' In contrast, Dukakis said, he and running mate Lloyd Bentsen would demand that foreign countries with access to U.S. markets open their doors to U.S. products. And he said a Dukakis administration would bring to rural America reasonable price supports for farmers, financing for economic development in rural communities, an immediate $100 million investment in rural health care, and agressive enforcement of worker safety guidelines _ a hot issue in this state, where the John Morrell & Co., meatpacking plant was fined $4.3 million Friday after being accused of violations of safety standards. Dukakis met with several Morrell workers before addressing the rally, and he questioned the timing of the fine. ``We're not going to wait until 10 days before the election to do something about it,'' he said of safety problems in the meatpacking and other industries. He also said the Farmers Home Administration was waiting until six days after the election to mail out notices to 90,000 family farmers, telling them they will have to refinance loans or face foreclosure. Dukakis said he could sense the race was tightening and joked about his vision of the outcome. ``This one is going to go down to the wire and it's going to be one by a nose,'' Dukakis said. ``If this one is one by a nose, I don't have to tell you who's going to win.'' Dukakis headed from South Dakota to California for an evening rally with supporters in the Watts section of Los Angeles. On Sunday he is taking a train tour through several California communities. Dukakis is on the road through Election Day, scheduled to arrive home on a cross-country flight that gets him to Boston shortly after the polls open.
AP881020-0264 	X	A Disney-controlled company seeking to acquire Polaroid Corp. is considering a plan to dismantle the instant camera pioneer if its hostile takeover succeeds, court testimony has revealed. Shamrock Holdings Inc. President Stanley P. Gold testified Wednesday on the first day of a critical legal battle with Polaroid that no decision has been made on the proposal from Wertheim Schroeder, Shamrock's investment adviser. Gold said the investment bank recommended that Shamrock sell off Polaroid's manufacturing businesses, cut back on research and development, reduce the administrative staff and settle pending antitrust litigation with Eastman Kodak Co. Previously, Shamrock had said only that it would reverse Polaroid's decision to enter the 35mm film business, settle the Kodak suit and sell off certain Polaroid assets. Shamrock advisers identified those assets as real estate valued at roughly $200 million. Polaroid fell 75 cents a share to close at $38.50 in consolidated New York Stock Exchange trading Wednesday. Gold was the only witness in the first day of the Chancery Court trial, which is scheduled to take five days before Vice Chancellor Caroline Berger. Opening arguments were be given later in the trial. Shamrock, a Burbank, Calif.-based television and radio concern controlled by Roy E. Disney, filed suit in July against Polaroid. Shamrock is seeking unspecified damages and asking the court to permanently enjoin or rescind Polaroid's employee stock ownership plan that would all but prevent Shamrock from acquiring Polaroid. The plan places 14 percent of Polaroid stock in employees' hands. Under Delaware takeover law, a hostile bidder must acquire more than 85 percent of a target's outstanding shares for control. Polaroid is incorporated in Delaware. The 10-million-share, $300 million employee stock plan was announced July 12, the same day Polaroid canceled a July 13 meeting with Shamrock and a week before Shamrock made its first $40-a-share bid for Polaroid. Shamrock claims stock plan was designed to thwart a takeover. Shamrock was rebuffed in its unsolicited bid before making a hostile offer of $42 a share last month that put a value of $2.6 billion on the company that introduced instant snapshots in 1948. Polaroid said the offer was too low and advised stockholders to reject it. Gold said that if the July 13 meeting had been held, he would not have told Polaroid he discussed takeover financing with several banks. He also did not intend to discuss Wertheim Schroeder's proposals, Gold said. ``There was no decision made on those things, and, no, I wasn't going to tell (Polaroid) about them. We hadn't made any decisions on (Wertheim Schroeder's) ideas,'' Gold said. He said the meeting ``was to determine whether or not we could have continued dialogue.'' Gold said that under an agreement with Polaroid, Shamrock was not to ``make any proposals or offers which would require disclosure'' during the meeting. He acknowledged that selling Polaroid's assets or settling the Kodak case would not have required public disclosure. Gold also testified that he had furnished information about the proposals to several banks, including Wells Fargo and the Bank of Nova Scotia. ``But I did not ask them to finance'' the entire acquisition, Gold said. A January trial is scheduled to determine damages in Polaroid's successful patent infringement lawsuit against Kodak. Polaroid is seeking $5.7 billion. Gold said he told the banks that Shamrock was exploring a takeover of Polaroid. Shamrock wanted to know if the banks would be interested in financing the venture if Shamrock decided to proceed, Gold said.
AP900323-0096 	X	A convoy of trucks carried 110 tons of emergency food Friday to a war zone in the northern part of Ethiopia, but a damaged bridge prevented it from carrying all its planned load. The bridge was not strong enough to handle trucks with trailers attached, so each truck carried just 10 tons of food instead of the 22 tons that would have been possible with trailers, said Yohannes Abraham. Abraham is an official of the Catholic Relief Services in Ethiopia. Eleven trucks made the 74-mile journey from the provincial capital of Dessie over a mountainous road to Kobo. Another convoy of 11 trucks covered the same route Monday in what relief officials said was a trial run. Its drivers reported the damaged bridge. Both trips went without a hitch. A consortium of Ethiopian churches is ferrying the food into the area, which is caught in the conflict between government troops and the rebel Tigre People's Liberation Front. The Tigreans are fighting to oust President Mengistu Haile Mariam and establish a government patterned after that of Albania, the last hard-line Marxist state in Eastern Europe. The emergency food comes largely from private donors in the United States and Western Europe. It is intended to feed 1 million people deprived because of the war and drought. A formal cease-fire does not exist, but the rebels and government have promised safe passage for convoys. The church groups hope to extend their distribution network from the north to southern Eritrea province, where another war is under way between the government and the secessionist Eritrean People's Liberation Army.
AP881117-0307 	X	A new TV production company, Ventura Entertainment Group, entered the bidding Thursday for De Laurentiis Entertainment Group Inc., a movie-maker operating under the protection of federal bankruptcy court. Ventura Entertainment announced it had offered $35 million in cash and equity for De Laurentiis, which was founded by Italian filmmaker Dino De Laurentiis. Ventura Entertainment Chairman Harvey Bibicoff refused to disclose how much of the offer was in cash. At least three other entertainment companies have expressed interest in buying the assets of De Laurentiis, whose productions have included a remake of ``King Kong.'' A De Laurentiis spokesman referred questions about the bid to the company's investment banker, Oppenheimer & Co., whose Los Angeles office did not respond to requests for comment Thursday afternoon. Any transaction would require the approval of De Laurentiis creditors and the U.S. Bankruptcy Court. De Laurentiis, which lost $478,000 in the second quarter, filed for protection from its creditors under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code in mid-August. Ventura, an Encino-based public company, was formed six months ago by producer Irwin Meyer, former Columbia Pictures executive Stephen Girard and Bibicoff. Its only finished project is ``International Celebration of the Piano,'' a concert film for television. De Laurentiis' assets include North Carolina Film Studios in Wilmington, N.C., which is rented out for various productions; Onyx Entertainment, which holds the rights to various scripts, and United States rights to show the studio's library of 350 movies, including ``The Graduate'' and ``Carnal Knowledge.'' Other bidders divulged by the company are troubled moviemaker Cannon Group Inc., videodisk producer Image Entertainment Inc. and Atlantic Entertainment Group.
AP880803-0086 	X	Nurses were flown in from elsewhere in California and from out of state as officials promised quality care at six area hospitals despite a strike by about 2,000 registered nurses. ``We feel we are able to operate with some (reductions) but still are able to offer our range of services,'' said Dr. Kenneth Hammerman, chief of staff at St. Francis Memorial Hospital. The nurses, demanding higher pay and regular raises for veteran employees, walked off the job Tuesday morning. Ten other hospitals in San Francisco remain unaffected. The six hospitals continued operating, caring for about 900 patients with management employees and temporary nurses, officials said. The hospitals, which negotiated as a group called Affiliated Hospitals of San Francisco, also transferred some patients, consolidated some critical-care units and referred some patients elsewhere. Hospital officials declined to say how many nurses were flown in. California Nurses Association spokeswoman Maureen Anderson estimated the number at 20 to 30. The walkout, which occurred after the nurses rejected a last-minute, revised offer, was the first widespread strike by registered nurses here since 1974. No new talks were scheduled. Hardest hit was the 61-bed Marshall Hale Hospital in San Francisco, where the emergency room was closed, operations canceled and no new patients were being admitted. Nurses on the picket lines questioned the qualifications of temporary workers and the quality of patient care. ``Common sense tells me I would not go to an Affiliated Hospital with nearly 4,000 workers on strike,'' Anderson said. Affected hospitals were St. Francis, Marshall Hale, Children's, Mount Zion and St. Mary's in San Francisco and Seton Medical Center in Daly City. The nurses want an 11 percent raise the first year and 10 percent the second year of a two-year contract. Affiliated Hospitals late Monday offered 18 percent over 31 months. Registered nurses at Affiliated Hospitals earn from about $31,000 to about $36,000 for day shifts and up to $43,000 a year for night shifts.
AP880413-0026 	X	The Federal Aviation Administration's ambitious modernization of its air traffic control system will cost billions of dollars more than the agency estimates because of unforeseen technical problems and delays, a congressional report says. Largely because of unexpected problems in developing and installing the new communications, radar, weather observation and computer systems, the upgrading will cost at least $24 billion, the General Accounting Office told Congress Tuesday. The FAA, which operates the air traffic control system and is obtaining the new equipment, acknowledges that the program has fallen behind schedule but has put the expected cost at $15.3 billion. ``Many of these technologies had to be invented, and the FAA underestimated how long it would take to invent some of these things,'' Kenneth M. Mead, an associate director of GAO, told the House transportation appropriations subcommittee. The report by GAO, Congress' investigative arm, also said hundreds of pieces of equipment that are being delivered to FAA facilities across the country are simply sitting in sheds because the agency lacks enough workers to install them. ``It's like ordering a piano and not having a living room to put it in,'' said Rep. William Lehman, D-Fla., chairman of the subcommittee. FAA Administrator Allan McArtor said in an interview after the hearing that the GAO figures were ``misleading,'' but acknowledged that the plan, introduced in 1981, is running behind its original timetable. The GAO report focused on the National Airspace System plan, the second largest civilian technology project ever undertaken in the United States, behind only the Apollo manned spacecraft program. Federal officials believe the new equipment is necessary to keep up with the continuing growth of aviation, the fastest growing segment of American transportation. The FAA originally hoped the new equipment would be in place by 1996. But officials now concede that because of delays, the project will not be completed until at least the year 2000. The study by GAO said that of the 12 major systems that comprise the modernization project, only one _ a computer _ is nearing completion. Major components have been delayed from between one year and five years, the report said. Reagan administration officials have blamed many of the delays on the slowness of federal purchasing procedures, and on a refusal by Congress to provide enough money to buy the equipment. Meanwhile, a broad coalition of aviation groups, aircraft manufacturers and airlines called on not only the industry but air travelers to put pressure on the government to expand airspace and airport capacity. The coalition, forming a group called Partnership for Improved Air Travel, announced a two-year campaign to enlist grassroots support for spending more money on airports and improvements in the air traffic control system. The air traffic modernization plan must be put ``on a fast track'' and new airports must be built or air travelers will face declining service, mounting delays and travel problems in the coming years, the coalition warned at a news conference. ``Unless we modernize the (air traffic system) quickly, we'll choke off growth to the detriment of all,'' declared Robert Crandall, chairman of American Airlines. Crandall was among five airline chief executives, and leaders of groups representing aircraft manufacturers, business flyers, private and commercial pilots and airport officials who attended a news conference announcing the campaign. The group envisions spending up to $15 million over the next two years to publicize the need for more airports and an improved air traffic control system. ``The nation has not yet made a commitment to create an (aviation) system that can efficiently meet today's demand and anticipate tomorrow's,'' said Herbert Kelleher, the chairman of Southwest Airlines, who also is chairman of the new coalition. Among the complaints voiced by the coalition were: too few air traffic controllers are being hired and trained, federal efforts to modernize the air traffic control technology is way behind schedule, there are too few airports and the Federal Aviation Administration needs to be restructured because it is hamstrung by bureaucratic restrictions.
AP880816-0181 	X	Celebrities from the world of law, sports and politics paid tribute today to Edward Bennett Williams, a famed trial lawyer and Washington insider whose clients included the James Hoffa, Joseph McCarthy and Frank Sinatra. He died Saturday at age 68. More than 1,000 people crowded into St. Matthew's Cathedral for the 2{-hour Mass before Williams was laid to rest in St. Gabriel's Cemetery in Potomac, Md., near his home. Pallbearers included Washington Post executive editor Benjamin C. Bradlee, columnist Art Buchwald, former Cabinet officer Joseph Califano and law partner Brendan Sullivan. Williams died at Georgetown University Hospital after an 11-year battle with cancer. At the time of his death, Williams presided over the Washington law firm of Williams and Connolly and was owner of the Baltimore Orioles baseball team. He had been president of the Washington Redsksins football team for 20 years.
AP901009-0023 	X	George Strait, who nearly quit singing 11 years ago, is the Country Music Association's top entertainer for the second straight year. Strait, frustrated over a lack of success, considered giving up his career in 1979 to work for a company that designs cattle pens, but he decided to keep going and soon became one of country music's top stars. His second win of the association's most prestigious honor came Monday during the CMA's 24th annual awards show. ``They were both surprises,'' the 38-year-old singer said after the nationally televised show. ``Everyone nominated certainly deserved to be there. But I'm glad they picked me.'' Over the summer, he had the biggest hit record of his career, ``Love Without End, Amen.'' His album ``Livin' It Up'' also has been a swift seller. ``It's hard not to be affected by this stuff,'' Strait said of his awards success. He shared laurels Monday night at the Grand Ole Opry House with the Kentucky HeadHunters, who won two awards, and with Clint Black and Kathy Mattea, who were chosen best vocalists. Tennessee Ernie Ford, 71, ``the Ol' Peapicker,'' capped off his career by being chosen for the Country Music Hall of Fame. ``Bless your little pea-pickin' hearts. Tonight I'm a happy man,'' said Ford, a TV pioneer known for his 1955 hit record ``Sixteen Tons.'' The Kentucky HeadHunters, a five-piece band whose shaggy hair and rock 'n' roll stylings make them unlikely country music stars, won vocal group of the year and best album for ``Pickin' on Nashville.'' ``Does this mean we get to keep our hair?'' jested HeadHunters' guitarist Greg Martin. Another double winner was newcomer Garth Brooks, who won top music video for ``The Dance'' and the Horizon Award for career development. His music video included clips of former President John Kennedy, the Challenger crew and John Wayne. Vince Gill, a singer who has done backup vocals for more than 100 of his peers, was rewarded by his friends when he won single of the year for ``When I Call Your Name.'' ``I've been around for a long time and I've waited for this for a long time so I'm going to stand up here for a long time,'' Gill, 33, said in accepting the award. The Judds, a mother-daughter duo, were chosen best vocal duo for the third straight year. ``I have just one more space on my mantel. I was really hoping for this,'' daughter Wynonna Judd said. Lorrie Morgan and her late husband, Keith Whitley, won vocal event of the year honoring performers who normally don't sing together. Their award was for ``'Til a Tear Becomes a Rose,'' which Whitley recorded alone. Morgan added her vocals after his death in May 1989. Song of the Year, a songwriter's award, went to Jon Vezner and Don Henry for the poignant ``Where've You Been,'' which was recorded by Mattea, Vezner's wife. Fiddler Johnny Gimble won musician of the year for the fourth time in the past five years. Randy Travis, who has sold more than 10 million records in just four years, failed for the fourth time to win the entertainer of the year award. Ricky Van Shelton, voted No. 1 male singer a year ago, won nothing this year despite being nominated in three categories. Travis and Reba McEntire was hosts of the show. Winners were chosen by the 6,000 voting members of the CMA, mostly singers, musicians, songwriters, song publishers, record company employees and disc jockeys. The Hall of Fame honoree was selected by an anonymous 300-member committee.
AP880922-0200 	X	Digital Equipment Corp., the No. 2 computer maker, is opening its doors to outside technology. Analysts say Digital's acquisition of a 5 percent stake in Mips Computer Systems Inc. marks a move to accept and implement technological advances occurring outside the company. Digital announced plans Wednesday to develop computer work stations based on the California company's technology. Work stations are expensive desktop computers that typically are used for work that requires extensive manipulation of numbers or sophisticated graphics, such as science, engineering, design and financial modeling. ``This is an acceptance on DEC's part that the computer user's dollar is being spent on work stations and small systems,'' said Bruce Watts, an analyst with Needham & Co. ``I think they feel that internally they've got enough on their hands in terms of keeping their own product line up to date and competitive, and if they want to tap other segments of the market they have to look outside,'' he said. Digital said it is lining up with Mips, based in Sunnyvale, Calif., to speed new work station products to the marketplace. The Maynard-based computer giant is second to Sun Microsystems Inc. in the fast-growing work station field. Under the agreement, Digital will used Mips-designed microprocessors that use reduced instruction set computing, or Risc, a way to speed up computing by simplifying the steps a processor has to carry out. The faster Risc microprocessors are used increasingly in work stations. ``With the addition of Risc technology, Digital will offer customers even more versatility in computer performance to match specific application demands,'' said William Strecker, a Digital vice president. Digital stock closed at $92.62{ in composite New York Stock Exhange trading Wednesday, up 12{ cents. Analysts said they expect Digital to unveil a work station using Mips chip technology by the end of the year. They said the decision by Digital marks the first time it has strayed from its reliance on its own Vax computer design. Analysts also said the Mips deal marks a concession to industry standards because Risc-based systems work well with Unix, the standard operating software made by American Telephone & Telegraph. Digital also acquired the right to use future Mips technology. In the past, Digital has designed all its computer components itself.
AP900209-0177 	X	A band of rain showers extended from Texas to Vermont on Friday, and rain also fell along the northern Pacific Coast. A cold snap in Alaska streched into its 15th day with no relief expected until at least Monday. The overnight low was minus 58 degrees at Fort Yukon. Rain showers and thunderstorms reached from west-central Texas across northern Texas, southeast Oklahoma, northern Arkansas and southwest Missouri. Thunderstorms in Texas brought hail to Waxahachee, Granview, Ferris and Peoria. Rain showers stretched from northeast Louisiana to eastern Mississippi, across northern Alabama, northern Georgia, northwestern South Carolina, Tennessee, Kentucky, West Virginia, northern Virginia, Ohio, western Pennsylvania, parts of New York state, and Vermont. Rain reached over the northern Pacific Coast, changing to snow in the higher elevations and extending into the northern half of the Rockies. Heavier rainfall during the 6 hours ending at 1 p.m. EST included 1.22 inches at Quillayute, Wash., about three quarters of an inch at Louisville, Ky., Tuscaloosa, Ala., Meridian, Miss., and Astoria, Ore. There were no reports of measurable snowfall during the same 6 hours. High temperature records were set for the date in Baltimore, 65; Beckley, W. Va., 64; Boston, 60; Bridgeport, Conn., 54; Cape Hatteras, N.C., 72; Mansfield, Ohio, 54; New York, 63; Philadelphia, 64; Portland, Maine, 55 and Richmond, Va., 72. The nation's low in the Lower 48 states was 12 below zero at Gunnison, Colo. Temperatures around the nation at 3 p.m. EST ranged from 13 degrees at Warroad, Minn., to 84 degrees at Fort Myers, Fla.
AP900831-0234 	X	A General Motors Corp. subsidiary will buy an insurance holding company subsidiary of Xerox Financial Services for an undisclosed sum, the companies said Friday. Motors Insurance Corp., a subsidiary of GM's General Motors Acceptance Corp. unit, will acquire NAVCO Corp., a subsidiary of Xerox's Crum and Forster Inc. organization, the companies said. The deal faces regulatory approval and a vote from each company's board. NAVCO provides automobile insurance mainly to members of associations. It had annual premiums of about $147 million last year. Motors Insurance had revenues of $1.1 billion in 1989 and insures personal and commercial coverages and plans. Crum and Forster, based in Basking Ridge, N.J., also said it wants to sell its Viking Insurance Co. of Wisconsin. That company provides personal automobile insurance.
AP900406-0001 	X	Democratic gubernatorial candidate Ann Richards on Thursday denounced an unattributed allegation that she was in a restroom where several women appeared to be smoking marijuana almost 11 years ago. ``Do you think this country has reached the point now ... that unsubstantiated people can say what they want to and suddenly it takes on the vein of truth by appearing on television and in the newspapers?'' Ms. Richards said at a campaign stop in Dallas. The state treasurer blamed her runoff opponent in Tuesday's primary election, Attorney General Jim Mattox, for spreading rumors about drug use. Mattox has said he possesses sworn statements from people who say they know Ms. Richards used illegal drugs in the past. But Mattox repeatedly has refused to reveal the names of those people or offer any other evidence to back up his accusations. The Houston Post on Thursday quoted a woman it didn't identify as saying she had seen Ms. Richards with a group of women in the restroom of an Austin hotel during the National Association of Women in Construction convention in 1979. The woman, who refused to tell her story unless guaranteed her name not be used, told the Post, ``When you walked in the door you could smell the definite aroma of marijuana. ``When I walked in (Ms. Richards) put her hand behind her and held it. The girl on the end, who I did not know, had a roach or a joint that had been smoked down in her hand,'' the woman told the newspaper. The Post report said the woman felt compelled to recount the incident after watching Ms. Richards refuse during televised debates to answer yes or no to the question of whether she had ever used illegal drugs. Ms. Richards, a recovering alcoholic, has said she has not had an alcoholic drink nor a mood-altering chemical in 10 years. Asked about the alleged 1979 incident, the state treasurer said, ``I have no idea what they're talking about.'' Ms. Richards said Thursday she was shocked the allegations had been reported. ``The surprising part is that now people are willing to put it in print, with no substantiation at all. That's not what this country is all about,'' she said. At a Thursday campaign stop in Lubbock, Mattox said he promised confidentiality to people who alleged Ms. Richards has used drugs. He also refused again to release his income tax records, as Ms. Richards has requested, unless she releases her medical records. When asked why, he said, ``Because I intend to win this campaign, and I choose the playing fields and I choose the methods by which we are going to play this game. That just happens to be the way politics work.'' Mattox has repeatedly said he expects to win the runoff and face Republican Clayton Williams in November. Releasing his income taxes when Williams hasn't done so would give Williams a signficant advantage, Mattox said.
AP880610-0305 	X	National Broadcasting Co. has decided against buying the cable channel Tempo Television for its proposed business news service but plans instead to lease time on the channel for the new programming. The General Electric Co. unit, which owns the NBC Television Network, cited tax considerations for its change in strategy. Buying the cable channel was seen as part of NBC President Robert Wright's oft-stated plans to broaden the broadcasting concern's business base. NBC announced last month it had signed a letter of intent to buy Tempo Television, and would use it for new business news and sports programming. Tempo Television, a unit of Tempo Enterprises Inc. of Tulsa, Okla., currently provides outdoors, travel and informational programming to about 12 million subscribers. NBC had planned to acquire the channel from Telecommunications Inc., a Denver-based cable operator which is in the process of buying Tempo Enterprises in a deal expected to close in the third quarter. On Thursday, NBC and Telecommunications said they were restructuring their plans to minimize ``tax and other complications that arose from trying to separate Tempo Television from its parent, Tempo Enterprises.'' Under the new plan, the companies said NBC would lease time on Tempo Television for a business news service that would run from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. weekdays, starting in early 1989. ``Under the new arrangement, NBC will still own and manage the business news service, but will reach existing Tempo TV subscribers without actually purchasing Tempo TV,'' the announcement said. It said that Tempo Television would try to help the business news service succeed by paying the first year's affiliation fee on behalf of all current Tempo TV affiliates who continue to carry Tempo fulltime after the launch of the business news service. John Draper, a spokesman for Telecommunications, said the new arrangement ``gives NBC the same thing that they were after'' when it planned to buy the cable channel _ access to a large base of subscribers. He declined to specify how much NBC would pay for the lease. It had been reported that NBC had agreed to pay about $20 million to buy the channel. The statement did not indicate what the new plans were for introduction of the proposed sports programing that NBC previously said it would put on the cable channel. John Malone, president of Telecommunications, said in the statement that his company will ``continue to explore with NBC the best format for sports and other possible programming for a prime time and weekend service.'' Thomas S. Rogers, the NBC executive overseeing the Tempo deal, was unavailable for comment. But Joseph Rutledge, an NBC spokesman, said today that the change to a lease arrangement posed no obstacle to NBC accomplishing what it set out to do. ``Some people choose to lease a car. Some people choose to buy a car. Both people end up with transportation. We are ending up with the very outcome we sought,'' he said. The new arrangement will give NBC access to cable subscribers, a solid relationship with Telecommunications, which is the nation's biggest cable operator, and an opportunity to develop two new programming services for cable TV, Rutledge said. He said that NBC continues to talk with cable operators about what they would like to see in a sports service and that NBC hopes to begin developing sports programming for cable TV soon after the business news service goes on the air. Wright was quoted in the statement as saying, ``The cable industry has been very encouraging and we are enthusiastic about our plans going forward.''
AP901024-0124 	X	The Bush administration has put Syria on notice it has a ``special responsibility'' to curb violence in areas of Lebanon under Syrian control, the State Department said Wednesday. With the U.S. Embassy in Beirut closed, the United States is assessing blame for the mounting death toll since Gen. Michel Aoun, the last major Christian holdout, gave up his struggle against Syrian forces 11 days ago. The most recent prominent victim was Dany Chamoun, a Christian leader who also opposed Syrian influence. He, his wife and two small children were slain in their Beirut apartment last weekend. No one has claimed responsibility. ``We have seen the many press reports of atrocities carried out in East Beirut since the surrender of Gen. Aoun,'' Margaret D. Tutwiler, the State Department spokeswoman, said. ``We do not have firsthand knowledge which could confirm those reports. However, the reports themselves are enough to shock and horrify,'' The U.S. official added: ``if these reports are true, whoever is responsible the United States would condemn them in the strongest terms.'' The Bush administration had urged Aoun to end his resistance. Aoun has taken refuge in the French embassy. ``We have told the Syrians they have a special responsibility, given their control over parts of Lebanon, to ensure that such abuses do not take place in areas under their control,'' Ms. Tutwiler said, reading from a prepared statement. ``There is no ambiguity in the message we have sent to Syria on this point.'' Syria, which has influence over the Lebanese government headed by President Elias Hrawi, is a key Arab ally of the United States in its campaign against Iraq's occupation of Kuwait. Some 4,000 Syrian troops are in Saudi Arabia to help defend the kingdom against Iraqi attack. Ms. Tutwiler said Assistant Secretary of State John H. Kelly had met with Syrian Ambassador Walid al-Moualem here while Edward Djerejian, the U.S. ambassador to Syria, had met with Foreign Minister Farouk al-Shara in Damascus. Also, the spokeswoman said, Kelly met Tuesday and several times before then with the Lebanese ambassador, Nassib Lahoud.
AP881012-0006 	X	Brown University and its food service, plant operations and library workers reached a contract agreement on Wednesday just hours before a midnight strike dedline. After two days of negotiations, the Ivy League school agreed to pay full health insurance premiums for members of Local 134 of the Service Employees International union. ``We feel that we have a great victory here,'' said Karen McAninch, the union's business agent.``The important thing is we got 100 percent Blue Cross coverage for the life of the agreement.'' A three-year contract for the 250 plant and food workers provided a 5.5 percent pay increase in the first year and a 5 percent increase in the remaining two years. The 90 library workers received a two-year contract that gave them a 5.5 percent increase in the first year and a 5 percent raise in the second. The contract was ratified by a show of hands by the plant and food workers and by a 50-21 vote from the library workers, McAninch said. The workers earlier this month authorized a strike for midnight Wednesday, when the contract covering plant and food workers expires. The contract for the library workers expired on Aug. 19. ``Both sides gave substantially in the interest of harmony to get the matter resolved,'' said Robert Reichley, a university spokesman. ``In the long run it may not be the best solution for both sides, but at least it averted a strike.'' On Tuesday, Brown officials offered a higher wage increase, but said they would pay only half the insurance premiums for the first year and 60 percent of following increases. McAninch said the principle of cost shifting was as important as the numbers. ``They knew that we were serious about striking and that we felt very strongly about the issues,'' she said. ``We had a lot of support from Brown University students.''
AP880222-0001 	X	The Socialist Party leadership on Monday strongly suggested President Kurt Waldheim should step down but stopped short of calling for his resignation. Chancellor Franz Vranitzky, party chief Fred Sinowatz and other party leaders also renewed an indirect offer to support a conservative candidate to be nominated for presidential elections if Waldheim quits. The resolution adopted by the Socialist leadership meeting said the report of a historians' commission on Waldheim's service in the German army during World War II had ``badly shaken the president's moral authority at home and abroad.'' It also said that a televised speech by Waldheim on Feb. 15 ``has raised doubts about his ability to integrate'' Austria's opposing political camps. In that speech, Waldheim said he would not step down and dismissed as wrong unspecified parts of the report earlier this month by the international panel of historians that probed his wartime past. Waldheim, 69, has consistently denied any wrongdoing as a first lieutenant serving in the German army in the Balkans during the war. The resolution said the Socialists are ready, together with the conservative People's Party, junior partner in the coalition government, to ``look for a way toward a new beginning in the office of federal president.'' Asked whether this meant that the Socialists would agree to a joint conservative presidential candidate, Sinowatz told reporters ``this certainly includes also the question whether a personnel change is possible.'' Economics Minister Robert Graf and other leading officials of the conservative People's Party last week expressed increasing uneasiness in the party about the damage being done to the country if Waldheim clings to his post. Waldheim, elected in 1986, ends his term in 1992. The historians' commission presented no evidence that would clearly back allegations Waldheim committed atrocities, but it left open the question of whether he was guilty of any crime. It said he was ``in close proximity'' to some Nazi atrocities in the Balkans, knew they were going on and made no attempt ot prevent them. It also said Waldheim concealed his wartime past and tried to make it seem harmless once he could no longer hide it.
AP880817-0277 	X	On many trains, speed thrills. Scenery flashes past, and passengers dart from side to side to view this mountain or that river. Not so with a pair of popular rail excursions that amble through wilderness in Northern California, barely faster than the stagecoaches that preceded them more than a century ago. What the Skunk and North Coast Daylight trains lack in miles per hour, they make up for in dense redwood groves, remote river canyons and all-aboard camaraderie. The revival of the North Coast Daylight for a second straight summer run has enabled railroad buffs to witness a rare sight in this town 130 miles north of San Francisco: two passenger trains arriving at the same time. ``It reminds me of the old days,'' said Jim Claveo of San Francisco, arriving on the Daylight after the 10-hour, 144-mile trip from Eureka. ``They're very friendly, more friendly than on most trains. ``You ride it for the scenery, and you also ride it for the nostalgia.'' The Skunk Train, running along a 103-year-old line through Mendocino County woods to Fort Bragg on the coast, has been full of like-minded tourists all summer despite last year's complaints about heavy logging spoiling part of the view. Bob Reid, who has crammed 151 tourist pins onto his crowded conductor's cap, keeps travelers amused in his role as ticket-checker, guide and glad-hander. ``I've been working for this railroad for 27 years, and it's still fun,'' said the Fort Bragg resident. ``Every day I meet new people from all over the world. There's only one Skunk Train.'' There was no North Coast Daylight train for almost two years following its ill-fated summer debut in 1985. On one of its early runs that year, the train was stranded by a landslide in the Eel River Canyon just 27 miles out of Willits. Financial problems and winter track damage caused suspension of the run, and service didn't resume until a year ago when Eureka Southern took over the line. The train is a reincarnation of the old Shasta Daylight that served the West Coast decades ago. It generally consists of eight cars: turquoise coaches, Shasta Daylight lounge cars with plush interiors and padded seats, a rare Southern Pacific club car with a standup bar decorated in ranch motif, and a classic Frisco Line parlor car where passengers may be served calzone or lasagna. Winding through the canyon on weather-beaten tracks that slow its speed to 10 mph, the North Coast Daylight can hit a rollicking 30 mph on straightaways. Twenty-nine tunnels enliven the trip, much of which is through wild terrain far from the nearest road. In addition to the usual sun-worshipers and skinny-dippers, passengers on one recent trip were treated to the sights of deer, bears, raccoons, river otters, wild pigs, an elk and an osprey clutching a trout in its beak along the peaceful banks of the Eel. ``The Eel River Canyon is one of the most beautiful river canyons I've ever seen,'' said Anne Tolleson of Santa Rosa. ``It's a great ride if you're not in a hurry.'' Further north, the train chugs through the redwood forests of Humboldt County and past one of the world's largest redwood mills in Scotia, the town of Fortuna and the dairy community of Loleta before ending the outbound half of the journey on the coast at Eureka. Eureka Southern has a half-dozen more weekend trips, with overnight layovers in Eureka, scheduled from August through mid-October. Business has been good enough, at 150 to 200 passengers per trip, that the railroad plans to expand the schedule next year, according to business manager Steve Branstetter. The Skunk, meanwhile, continues to lure enough train fans to operate year-round. Gerald Allen, general manager of the Fort Bragg-based California Western Railroad that took it over in 1987, says the train should match last year's near-record total of 70,000 passengers taking the daily trips out of either Fort Bragg or Willits. About half the riders hail from the San Francisco Bay area. The line was founded as a logging railroad in 1885. Steam passenger service began in 1904 and was extended to Willits seven years later. Gas engines replaced steam in 1925, and the train's famous moniker was born shortly thereafter by trainmen who remarked that the smelly fumes had the aroma of a skunk. Today's trains are almost all diesel-powered, but the name has proven longer-lasting than the polecat's pungency. The serpentine route could be a roller coaster, climbing from sea level to 1,740 feet, crossing 31 bridges and trestles and disappearing into two pitch-black mountain tunnels. But top speed of 20 mph _ the average is 13 mph _ keeps this a leisurely family experience. The Skunk even stops to pick up campers or deliver groceries, mail and medicine to areas inaccessible by car. Passengers are let out for half an hour in deep woods at Northspur, the line's midway point, where they can buy snacks and gaze up at coastal redwoods towering more than 300 feet. Repeat patrons may notice a few more bare patches than in past years on the Fort Bragg half of the line. ``We never considered clear-cutting to be a major problem, but there are certainly some areas out there that are not the Avenue of the Giants by any stretch of the imagination,'' said Allen. ``Everybody wants a redwood deck, and that's where they come from.''
AP880831-0108 	X	While the infamous White House taping system was being planned, President Nixon suggested that he have a button to turn it on and off manually, but was dissuaded by an aide who says he thought the president was too clumsy. Therefore, a voice-activated system was installed and Nixon quickly lost awareness that his every conversation was being recorded, says former White House chief of staff H.R. Haldeman in an article for the National Archives publication ``Prologue.'' The tapes led to Nixon's resignation in August 1974 when they provided damning evidence that he had consented to the White House cover-up of the Watergate break-in. Haldeman said Nixon had resisted the idea of taping conversations but reluctantly agreed it was the best way to get an accurate record of meetings. ``He suggested we might install the same kind of switch- or button-operated machine that (Lyndon) Johnson had used.'' Haldeman wrote. ``That would allow him to turn the system on or off as he thought best.'' The former aide continued: ``I responded, `Mr. President, you'll never remember to turn it on except when you don't want it, and when you do want it you're always going to be shouting _ afterwards, when it's too late _ that no one turned it on.' ``I added, silently, in my own thoughts, that this president was far too inept with machinery ever to make a success of a switch system.'' The taping system that finally was installed was activated by the Secret Service's locator system which keeps track of the president's whereabouts. Eventually, five microphones were put in the president's desk, two were in wall lamps at each side of the fireplace on the opposite side of the Oval Office, and there were others in the Cabinet Room, Nixon's office in the Old Executive Office Building and at Camp David, Md., the presidential retreat. ``The historiography of the Nixon administration will eventually be much the richer as a result of Richard Nixon's decision to tape-record his meetings and telephone conversations,'' Haldeman writes. ``Nixon was not thinking of historians when he made this decision, but they will be the ultimate beneficiaries.'' Haldeman's account is much softer in tone and less critical of Nixon than when he described the same events in a 1978 book, ``The Ends of Power,'' which he said ``was unfortunately sensational in many instances where I would have preferred it to be more reasoned and thorough.'' In the book, Haldeman said Nixon had ``fudged'' the tape story in various ways, ``climaxing with the assertion on television in 1977 that he had ordered me to destroy all of the tapes.'' There is no reference to that in the Prologue article. Haldeman says he is amazed how quickly he forgot about the system once it was in place. ``For a short time, I worried that it might not be working, and I dispatched someone to test the machinery,'' he writes. ``But the worry quickly passed, as did any awareness at all that Nixon's conversations _ my conversations, often _ were being taped. I think Nixon lost his awareness of the system even more quickly than I did.'' Nixon himself has written that ``initially I was conscious of the taping, but before long I accepted it as part of the surroundings.'' Nixon fired Haldeman in April 1973 at the height of the cover-up of the June 1972 break-in, when burglars placed bugs in telephones and searched files in Democratic Party headquarters in the Watergate Office Building. Haldeman served an 18-month prison term for his part in the affair. Haldeman said he chose to write about the taping system because the National Archives plans to release 60 hours of the recordings next year for public listening.
AP900411-0103 	X	President F.W. de Klerk met Wednesday with with Desmond Tutu and other church leaders to discuss how to end black feuds in Natal province that have killed about 400 people in the past two months. In the latest violence in South Africa's black townships, 12 more people were reported killed and 200 injured since Monday night. ``The situation in Natal has reached proportions which are beyond human understanding and endurance,'' the South African Council of Churches said in a separate statement. The church council, made up of most major Protestant denominations, called ``on all people to use Holy Week ... through Easter Sunday to focus on prayer and fasting for the people of Natal in particular and South Africa as a whole.'' There were no immediate details on de Klerk's meeting with Archbishop Tutu, a Nobel Peace Prize winner, and other leaders of the South African Council of Churches. Before the meeting, de Klerk said, ``I think the churches have a role to play in ending the violence in the country.'' The King Edward VIII Hospital in the port city of Durban said it was so overcrowded due to the Natal fighting that it temporarily stopped admitting patients in need of surgery, even emergency cases. ``We simply cannot carry out any more surgery,'' said the hospital superintendent, Dr. A.M. Seedat. ``We have reached a situation where we cannot take on a single extra patient.'' Other hospitals in the area also are near capacity. Eight blacks were killed, including six by police fire, in dozens of clashes in black townships across the country, police said Wednesday in a report covering 56 incidents since Monday night. Two hundred people were injured and dozens were arrested, police said. Government-run radio reported four more people died in feuding between black political factions in the Crossroads township outside Cape Town. About 4,000 people have died in the Natal fighting since 1986. The main combatants are supporters of the African National Congress, the country's leading anti-apartheid group, and Inkatha, a relatively conservative Zulu organization. Both organizations have large numbers of youthful supporters they cannot control. Criminal gangs and other bands have also taken advantage of the chaos to loot, burn and murder. Hernus Kriel, the planning and provincial affairs minister, toured the northern Natal battle zones Wednesday and announced a $100,000 aid package for the estimated 13,000 Zulu refugees. He said the government's plan for dealing with the crisis would be announced in the next week or two, but could take six or seven years to carry out. ``The first thing that strikes me is the poverty of these people,'' Kriel said. ``We will have to provide the infrastructure for such basic needs as water, sewerage and rubbish removal.'' The police commissioner, Gen. Johan van der Merwe, told Parliament the secret to ending unrest was to send more security forces into troubled areas. The minister of law and order, Adriaan Vlok, said policemen were resigning at the rate of 22 per day, double the rate of two months ago. He proposed urgent increases in pay and benefits.
AP900828-0191 	X	Donald Trump has pledged his 27.2 percent stake in Alexander's Inc. as collateral for his $65 million financial rescue from casino and bank debt, documents disclosed Tuesday. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Trump revealed that as part of the restructuring of some $2 billion in debt last week, he pledged more than 1.35 million shares in the New York department store chain as security. The three New York banks to which the Alexander's stock was pledged were not identified in the documents. The slumping New York real estate market and disappointing results from his Atlantic City, N.J., casinos put Trump in a cash squeeze earlier this year, endangering his ability to pay his debts on time. On June 15, Trump failed to make a $43 million payment on bonds issued to build the Trump's Castle hotel and casino in Atlantic City. He also was overdue on a $30 million loan payment to a group led by Manufacturer's Hanover Trust Co. But the New Jersey Casino Control Commission approved the bank bailout to help restructure about $2 billion of Trump's $3.2 billion casino and bank debt.
AP900522-0091 	X	Daily News Publisher and President James Hoge has been elected chairman of the 1991 Pulitzer Prize board, Columbia University President Michael I. Sovern announced today. Hoge succeeds Eugene L. Roberts Jr., executive editor of The Philadelphia Inquirer and president of Philadelphia Newspapers Inc., who remains a Pulitzer board member. Hoge will serve as chairman for one year. In addition, scholar and critic Helen Vendler and Marilyn Yarbrough, dean of the University of Tennessee College of Law, have been elected to the board. Their election fills a vacancy left by Charlotte Saikowski, former Washington bureau chief of the Christian Science Monitor, and another created when the board voted to expand from 17 to 18 members in April. The Pulitzer board is responsible for recommending to Columbia University's trustees whom they should honor with annual awards for excellence in journalism and the arts.
AP880725-0150 	X	More than a year after it began, the court-martial of the first member of the military to face prosecution on AIDS-related charges moves to its trial phase Tuesday. Pvt. Adrian G. Morris Jr., 28, of Caseyville, Ill., is accused of having threatened the health of three soldiers by failing to use condoms during sexual relations and by failing to warn them he had tested positive for exposure to the AIDS virus. Morris has pleaded innocent to three counts of aggravated assault, three counts of conduct bringing discredit upon the Army and one count of sodomy. He has chosen to stand trial at Fort Huachuca in southern Arizona before a sole military judge, rather than in front of a jury panel. Morris could be sentenced to up to 17 years in prison, dishonorable discharge and forfeiture of all pay and allowances if convicted. He allegedly had sexual relations with one male and two female soldiers. One of the women, his fiancee at the time, Spec. 4 Patricia C. Pruitt, gave birth last year to a child allegedly fathered by Morris. A hearing had been scheduled Monday on one remaining pretrial motion, but the judge, Col. Raymond D. Cole, decided instead to hold that hearing Tuesday before the trial starts. That motion involves a prosecution effort to have Cole reverse himself on a ruling in May that would require one of Morris' alleged victims, known only as Jane Doe, to identify herself publicly when she testifies. ``She's requested anonymity and we feel a certain obligation to do everything we can to protect her,'' Col. Harry Beans, staff judge advocate at Fort Huachuca, said Monday. ``She came forward and we feel uncomfortable about the prospects of having to reveal her identity publicly since we don't feel it will add anything to the case.'' Court-martial proceedings began more than a year ago but were adjourned indefinitely Aug. 5 to allow appeal of a ruling that prohibited the Army from using Morris' AIDS blood test results. According to the Army's charges, Morris was routinely tested for AIDS in April 1986 after he reported to duty as a clerk at Fort Huachuca, and was told that the results were positive for exposure to the HIV virus. A midlevel military appellate court reversed Cole last fall, and in March the United States Court of Military Appeals, the highest military court, let that ruling stand. This spring, Morris was demoted from private first class, reportedly for use of marijuana, although officials have refused to disclose the reason for the demotion. Also in the spring, sources said, Morris offered through his lawyers to accept an administrative severance from the Army with a general discharge under honorable conditions. The Army refused. Since court-martial proceedings began against Morris, several other military members have been charged, have entered pleas or have been convicted of AIDS-related charges. They include a soldier at Fort Hood, Texas, who pleaded guilty to charges including disobeying an officer; another at Fort Sill, Okla., who pleaded guilty to aggravated assault; an airman at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio, who was convicted of aggravated assault; and a Navy officer acquitted of assault and adultery in a San Francisco case. The Army and Air Force have instituted regulations ordering commanding officers to inform any soldier or airman testing positive for exposure to the AIDS virus that failure to inform all sex partners of the test results and to practice safe sex will bring discharge or prosecution. The Navy instituted a similar legal advisory policy, but it apparently does not require commanding officers to issue a warning, according to a spokesman.
AP900217-0148 	X	Until last week, 23-year-old Jarl Ginsberg, was an options trader at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. But when the company's parent filed for bankruptcy court protection in the largest collapse of any Wall Street firm, Ginsberg was forced to consider his alternatives. Getting a master's of business administration would give him ``credentials and credibility,'' and it would buy him time while the industry limps back on its feet. The shine on the MBA degree, the yuppie ticket to bigger and better things that has been coveted for more than a decade, has yet to tarnish. Despite fresh and massive layoffs on Wall Street, businesspeople and students alike still say the degree makes a difference. Business schools anticipate no drop in applications, though students are shifting their studies away from risky investment banking in favor of consulting and more traditional areas like corporate finance. Many new MBAs have yet to chip away at the loans they took out to foot the degree. A few are considering drastic career changes. One 30-year-old investment banker who graduated from Columbia University's business school two years ago owes nearly $25,000 on college loans. But job prospects have dimmed so astonishingly that he is preparing to apply to law schools. ``Career paths within banking are fairly restricted now,'' he said, speaking anonymously so he wouldn't officially violate his company's ``don't-talk-to-the-press'' policy. ``It's time to look beyond banking.'' What drove hordes of people to the financial services industry via business school was the promise of financial rewards that practically knew no bounds. Recruiters visiting the Columbia campus a few years back were offering starting salaries of $75,000 and ``the unspoken promise of $250,000 five years out,'' one recent grad remembers. Today, financial companies are not even showing up to talk to students, let alone offer them jobs. At New York Univeristy's Stern School, ``all companies are cutting back and some are canceling their schedules'' to interview for summer internships, said Howard Leifman, assistant director of the school's office of career development. At Columbia, director of placement and career services Elizabeth Katsivelos said there haven't been any ``excessive cancellations.'' But she did note that more students are showing an interest in consulting and manufacturing. In 1986, the go-go days of Wall Street, 31 percent of Columbia's MBA grads went to brokerage houses and investment firms. Last year, the number dwindled to 16 percent, and Katsivelos called further declines possible. Some insiders predict only a mere 10 percent of the Drexel people will actually land jobs in financial services in New York. More than 5,000 Drexel employees were expected to lose their jobs. According to a study of recent MBA graduates from the prestigious Wharton School in Philadelphia, those accepting jobs in the Northeast have dropped more than 7 percent, while those moving to the South jumped 56 percent. For those willing to pack it all in and move, many will find themselves trapped by real estate they can't readily unload. Cooperative apartments in Brooklyn Heights, which offers a bird's-eye view of Wall Street, are either being deeply discounted or taking months to sell. At the peak of the city's real estate boom a few years ago, a modest, two-bedroom apartment sold for $225,000 in a less fashionable Brooklyn neighborhood. Local realtors now tell the owners they'll have to drop to about $190,000 if they want a quick sale. ``You're stuck with property you've paid a lot of money for,'' one homeowner complained. For those who do manage to land on their feet, the question becomes just how solid the foundation will be. Do they have any chance of earning their previous salaries? One 28-year-old trader, who earned $100,000-plus at a Wall Street firm, has been unemployed since September. His prospects are even bleaker now that he's competing with another few thousand Drexel jobless. Though he received a generous severance package, there's only money left to cover living expenses for his family and the mortgage on his designer duplex loft for another eight months. Then, of course, there's a certain amount of guilt to be dealt with after riding the wave of greed and materialism. Some of Wall Street's unfortunate said they were embarrassed they didn't see the end coming. ``I feel responsible for not anticipating things better,'' said one.
AP880510-0119 	X	Four of Wall Street's biggest firms said today they had indefinitely suspended a highly profitable computerized method of trading stocks because of widespread criticism that it is causing volatility and destroying investor confidence. The announcements by Salomon Brothers Inc., Morgan Stanley & Co., PaineWebber Inc. and Bear Stearns & Co. came amid an uproar about so-called index-arbitrage program trading and a protracted slump in the stock market since the October crash nearly seven months ago. The firms' actions came a week after the New York Stock Exchange intensified post-crash limits on program trading, blamed for causing enormous swings in stock prices for reasons unrelated to underlying values. Salomon and Morgan are among the most significant users of the technique, which uses high-volume computers to sell stocks in New York and buy equivalent stock-index futures in Chicago, or vice versa, to profit from fleeting price disparities. Bear Stearns and PaineWebber is considered a smaller user of program trading. Salomon, Morgan and Painewebber said they were suspending the technique as of today for their own accounts although they would continue to do it for customers if requested. Bear Stearns said it had suspended the technique for its own account as well as customer accounts as of last Thursday, but didn't publicize it until the other firms made announcements today. ``I think it's certainly a move in the right direction,'' said Jack Barbanel, head of commodities and financial futures at the New York brokerage Gruntal & Co. ``It's meaningul because at least there's beginning to be an acknowledgment to the public perception that program trading causes turbulence.'' Large numbers of investors have complained to the NYSE and their brokers that program trading has compelled them to get out of stocks because they believe it has made the market more like a gambling casino. Brokers also are growing resentful of the relatively small number of program traders. Moreover, there is a belief in the securities industry that lawmakers will take severe legislative action aimed at restoring investor confidence unless brokerage firms can find ways to reform themselves. ``We have decided to suspend any non-customer-related index arbitrage activity with the goal of furthering the serious analysis of the role of index arbitrage in market volatility,'' PaineWebber's chairman and chief executive, Donald B. Marron, said in a statement. ``It is our hope that all interest regulators and market participants work together in an objective manner to find an intelligent and mutually acceptable solution to this issue.'' John Gutfreund, chairman and chief executive of Salomon, said in a statement that his firm ``will abstain from all domestic stock index propriatary arbitrage for the present time.'' ``It is necessary for all to work toward the goal of restoring confidence in and guaranteeing the vibrancy of the marketplace,'' he said. Morgan said in a statement that ``the efforts of our industry, the exchanges, the regulators and Congress should be directed towards expanding liquidity, reducing volatility and restoring public confidence in the equity markets.'' ``We have no present intention of starting again. That doesn't mean we won't do it again,'' Alan C. Greenberg, Bear Stearns' chairman and chief executive, said in an answer to a telephone query. ``The profit is greatly overstated. If everybody thinks it's so important (to stop), we'll give in to it.''
AP880531-0028 	X	A small boat carrying eight people capsized Monday during a Memorial Day outing, killing six women aboard and a man who tried to rescue them, authorities said. The operator of the boat was able to swim ashore and one person on the craft was rescued, authorities said. The seven bodies were recovered from the 25-acre Lake Tillatoba on Monday night, said authorities, who were unsure how the accident occurred. Yalobusha County Coroner Stanley True identified the victims, all of Coffeville, as Eddie Rounds, 41; Janice Martin, 20; her cousins Anna Martin, 21, and Martin's sister, Marlee, 20; Sherry Taylor, 21; Sandra Baker, 24; and Sherry Jenkins, 19. True said the women were passengers in a 16-foot, flat-bottom aluminum boat piloted by Robert Armstrong, also of Coffeville. Armstrong was able to swim ashore after the boat capsized, said True. Rounds drowned when he attempted to help the women, True said. Melvin Pernell, who also was on the boat, was rescued by a fisherman, Armstrong said. The coroner said there were no life jackets on the craft. The boat was designed to hold up to five people, said Deputy Sheriff Homer Melton. The Sheriff's Department said rescue workers, including divers, were called to the lake shortly after 4 p.m. Officials said the victims' bodies were recovered by crews who dragged the lake. The lake is located off Mississippi Highway 330 between the towns of Tillatoba and Coffeeville in north-central Mississippi.
AP901220-0175 	X	Albanian border guards shot at Albanians trying to flee to Yugoslavia on makeshift rafts, killing at least four of them and wounding others, the Croatian news agency HINA reported. It quoted Yugoslav police as saying Albanians used rafts made of tractor tires and rubber inner tubes to flee to neighboring Yugoslavia across the Bojana river; that 23 men, women and children crossed safely, but that four bodies were found on one raft and a number of refugees were reported wounded. HINA, reporting from the Yugoslav border town of Ulcinj, said Albanian border guards began shooting at the rafts at about 1 a.m. Thursday. A group of 28 Albanians successfully crossed at the same place Tuesday.
AP880225-0046 	X	A. No, but I do know that we're doing a great many things and we also are keeping track of the extent to which the private sector is joining in and helping on this, and this budget is the result of long, long weeks of negotiation with the Democrats and ourselves, and I think that we're meeting the problems. Again, I also have to say this _ that sometimes, our budget in programs can reflect another program we've had going, which is a management program, and we have had a team for a considerable period of time now that has been actually investigating the management practices of government programs as compared to the way they're done in the private sector. And there are millions and millions of dollars that are being saved so that something that maybe looks smaller does not mean that the people in need are going to get less, it means that we're able to provide that with less administrative overhead. When I came here from a governorship, as a governor, I had seen federal programs administered in our state in which it was costing the federal government $2 for every dollar that reached a needy person. This is something we've been trying to change, and we've made some progress in it. Q. Mr. President, just to follow up on the budget, the chairman of your Council of Economic Advisers told us last week that the deficit might have a good side if it forces your successor and Congress to make choices in social programs _ do you _ is that _ do you see a good side to the deficit? A. I have said that I think that there is a great reform that is needed throughout many of those programs, and it is a reform to where we can get these programs to where their goal will be to remove people from dependency and make them independent of government help instead of doing what we've been doing for too many years now, and that is, actually involving them in dependency to the place where they never can get out _ we've made them permanently dependent on government _ and we're trying to change that, correct that. Q. Thank you. A. Thank you, Helen. I'm going to run for it now.
AP900420-0146 	X	President Bush's 1991 defense budget could be cut nearly $6 billion through reductions including Star Wars spending and delaying a plan to put MX nuclear missiles on rail cars, the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee said Friday. Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., called for a military budget of $297 billion to $298 billion for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1. Bush wants a $303 billion budget, including an additional $1 billion for the Strategic Defense Initiative, commonly known as Star Wars. ``Assuming SDI is redirected into a coherent and rational research program, I believe it should be funded at roughly the current appropriated level,'' Nunn said in a speech on the Senate floor. Congress approved about $3.8 billion for the anti-missile shield in 1990's $296 billion defense budget. The SDI total marked the first reduction in the program in six years. Nunn's overall budget proposal is about $1.5 billion more than the cut adopted Thursday by the House Budget Committee and some $6 billion higher than the figure suggested by Senate Budget Committee chairman Sen. James Sasser, D-Tenn. ``I think the fight will be to try to keep defense even at the levels I'm talking about,'' Nunn said. He projected defense savings of about $3 billion to $3.5 billion this year from the changes in the strategic programs and between $20 billion and $30 billion over the next five years. Nunn's comments on the budget were the first by the powerful chairman of the Armed Services Committee. He is the leading defense expert among conservative Democrats. Elsewhere on Capitol Hill, White House budget director Richard Darman dismissed all Democratic defense proposals and argued that lawmakers' affection for pet defense project in their districts will prevail over the cuts. ``As it gets much more clear what it means for particular congressmen's districts, you'll see the political system, independent of defense strategy, start to put a bottom on that defense cut,'' Darman said. Nunn called his budget range a ``realistic and responsible target.'' He said there should be a delay in placing multiple-warhead MX missiles on railroad cars and criticized the purchase of trains while the Pentagan is still conducting tests. The Bush budget calls for $2.2 billion to put 50 MX missiles on rail cars. Sens. Carl Levin, D-Mich., and James Jeffords, R-Vt., introduced legislation Friday that would cut $1.6 billion of the administration proposal for the MX. That total represents all the procurement and military construction funds in Bush's budget for MX. ``The MX rail-garrison funding plan is a classic example of the flawed `buy before you fly' policy that has cost the country so much money in recent years,'' Levin said in a speech on the Senate floor. Nunn reiterated his support for the single-warhead Midgetman missile, but suggested deployment in existing silos with mobile launchers a later option. He repeated his opposition to development of a new short-range nuclear missile in Europe and questioned buying a new Trident submarine each year and Trident D-5 missiles with nuclear warheads in short supply. Nunn reserved comment on the B-2 stealth bomber until after Defense Secretary Dick Cheney briefs members of Congress on the Pentagon's review of major aircraft programs. However, Nunn said the B-2 program of 132 planes at a cost of $72 billion ``must be made more affordable.'' Nunn called for slashing Bush's defense budget authority to $289 billion to $291 billion, about $18 billion less than the president has proposed for fiscal 1991. Because budget authority represents the amount that can be spent over several years _ such as in a long-term contract to purchase warships _ the cut would force reductions in future Pentagon spending plans.
AP880422-0068 	X	A strike by air traffic controllers demanding better working conditions has shut down all airports in the country. The walkout began Thursday morning and affected international flights by the Salvadoran airline Taca, the Costa Rican national airline Lacsa, the Panamanian airline Copa, Pan American World Airways and the Honduran airline Sahsa. All domestic flights also were affected. The Air Traffic Controllers Union is demanding a salary review, improvements in training and an overhaul of equipment.
AP880329-0233 	X	The Internal Revenue Service said it is closing a loophole that allowed procrastinating taxpayers to slip out of the country briefly on April 15th and gain an automatic two-month extension on filing their income taxes. The new ruling, announced Monday, is effective for tax forms due next month, and requires taxpayers to be out of the country for at least two weeks, including April 15th, to qualify for the automatic extension. In the past, someone who left the country for just hours or minutes on the 15th was eligible.
AP900118-0096 	X	The Soviet Union has withdrawn MiG-23 and Tu-16 planes from its base at Cam Ranh Bay in Vietnam, a Foreign Ministry spokesman said Thursday. Cam Ranh Bay, a former American base during the Vietnam War, is the Soviets' largest foreign base, according to U.S. military sources. As of 1985, a reported 30 ships were based there. A squadron with six to 10 aircraft remains at the field, said spokesman Vadim Perfiliev. He gave no other details. MiG-23s are fighters. Tu-16 Badgers are variously fitted out as bombers and electronic reconnaissance aircraft.
AP900630-0040 	X	Workers at a third U.S. company were threatening to join a growing strike that has paralyzed Honduras' only petroleum refinery and the huge Chiquita banana exporter. President Rafael Leonard Callejas, who faces the worst crisis since taking office in January, said in a brief telephone interview Friday that he has appealed to other unions not to expand the walkout. Callejas said he hoped ``there will be a satisfactory resolution'' to the growing number of strikes ``for the good of the country.'' Leaders representing hundreds of thousands of workers have threatened to call a strike in solidarity with 10,000 employees at Cincinatti-based Chiquita, who walked off the job Thursday demanding their pay of about $15 a day be increased 60 percent. The 4,000 workers at Castle and Cooke, a subsidiary of Standard Fruit of New York, will strike beginning Monday if ``Chiquita Brands doesn't accede to its workers' demands,'' said Mauro Gonzalez, president of the Standard Fruit union. Friday, 2,000 workers shut down Texaco Caribbean Inc., Honduras' only oil refinery in solidarity with the Chiquita walkout, and a company official warned lack of fuel could paralyze the country. ``If there isn't a rapid resolution to the strike, Honduras will be out of fuel in three days,'' said Manuel Crespo, the head of Texaco. The workers at the three U.S. companies belong to the 70,000-strong National Federation of Workers' Unions, which has threatened further action. Other labor groups, including the 600,000-member Workers Confederation, have said they will strike if Chiquita refuses to negotiate. Chiquita Brands International Inc. and Standard Fruit control virtually the entire Honduras' banana industry and bananas are its principal crop export. Formerly called United Brands and, before that, United Fruit, Chiquita has enjoyed a near monopoly on Honduran bananas since 1912, controlling 60 percent of the fruit's exports. Although it has waned in recent years, the two banana exporting companies still wield a big influence in this impoverished nation of 4.8 million people whose annual per capita income of $740 is the lowest in the Western Hemisphere after Haiti. Honduras was the first Central American nation to be dubbed a ``banana republic'' because of the vast influence of the U.S. fruit companies. Many fear prolonged labor unrest could destabilize the country, one of the United States' closest allies in Central America. Chiquita's employees average $15.32 a day and their last raise was in 1984, even though Honduras has suffered annual inflation of about 50 percent since then. Renee Ayestas, head of the Chiquita union, said the company notified a presidential commission, trying to find a solution to the dispute, that it is willing to start negotiations beginning this afternoon. But the report could not be immediately confirmed. No company spokesmen were available for comment when Ayestas made the announcement in a telephone interview Friday night. Texaco has a complete monopoly of Honduras' petroleum industry. It controls all 100 service stations, refines 8,000 of the 12,000 barrels a month the nation consumes, and imports the rest already refined.
AP880323-0211 	X	President Reagan marked the fifth anniversary of his plan for a Star Wars missile defense system on Wednesday by asserting that the high-tech program is an incentive to U.S.-Soviet arms control efforts. In a written statement issued the same day he announced a date for his fourth summit with Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev, Reagan lauded the missile shield proposal, known formally as the Strategic Defense Initiative, as ``vital to our future security.'' ``We must recognize that we live in an imperfect, often violent world, one in which ballistic missile technology is proliferating despite our efforts to prevent this,'' Reagan said. ``We would be doing a grave and dangerous disservice to future generations if we assumed that national leaders everywhere, for all time, will be both peaceful and rational.'' The president warned, as he has many times, that the Soviets ``not only are ahead of us in ballistic missiles, but also are deeply engaged in their own SDI-like program. If they are allowed to keep their near-monopoly in defenses, we will be left without an effective means to protect our cherished freedoms in the future.'' The president announced his proposal for the missile shield defense program on March 23, 1983. ``I put forward the vision of ... a future free from the threat of the most dangerous weapon mankind has invented: fast-flying ballistic missiles,'' Reagan recalled in his statement. Reagan, who has staunchly defended the plan despite Soviet efforts to curb it and congressional efforts to cut its funding, said it had ``provided a valuable incentive for the Soviets to return to the bargaining table and to negotiate seriously over strategic arms reductions.'' ``And as we move toward lower levels of offense, it will be all the more important to have an effective defense,'' Reagan argued. The president has repeatedly insisted, however, that he will not use SDI as a bargaining chip in negotiations with the Soviets. Reagan, following an Oval Office meeting with Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze, announced he will go to Moscow from May 29 to June 2 for his fourth meeting with Gorbachev. The highlight of the summitt was intended to be the signing of a treaty to slash the superpowers' long-range strategic weapons, but Reagan has suggested that the agreement will not be ready due to time limitations. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the issue of SDI did not come up in Wednesday's meetings between U.S. and Soviet officials at the White House. In his statement, Reagan said the high-tech program now faces problems that ``are largely political.'' Congress has cut funds for the program every year, Reagan said, asserting this has put the program ``one to two years'' behind schedule. Capitol Hill slashed Reagan's 1988 request for the program from $5.6 billion to $3.9 billion. He is seeking $4.6 billion in 1989. In the year's first defense spending vote, a House subcommittee decided Wednesday to cut deeply into Reagan's budget request for Star Wars, approving $3.7 billion, which would be an increase of only 3 percent over the current Star Wars budget, according to congressional sources speaking on condition of anonymity. The request will later go to the full House Armed Services Committee, and later to the full House.
AP900821-0030 	X	A Taiwanese air force plane carrying 18 senior military officers crashed near a village today and all the passengers were feared dead. A spokesman for the Defense Ministry said the plane, a personnel transport craft, was taking the officers, including several major generals, to an important meeting when it crashed in Yunlin, a village 150 miles south of Taipei. The air force said the plane was in two parts after plowing into a sugar cane field in the central part of Taiwan. Taiwan's official Broadcasting Corp. of China said the aircraft was broken into two following an explosion. A part of the plane fell on the suger cane field and the rest was scattered in small pieces, it said. The Defense Ministry spokesman, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said everyone on board was feared dead. Rescue crews were at the site, the air force said, but so far no survivors have been found.
AP900717-0115 	X	An off-target 155mm artillery shell landed near reserve soldiers during a training exercise Tuesday and killed five of them and wounded 10, the army command said. It said three of the wounded were badly hurt. Less than three months ago, on April 23, seven Israeli airmen were killed in another training accident when their transport helicopters collided during a flight over the occupied West Bank. The army said in a statement that Tuesday's accident occurred when a reserve unit was conducting an exercise involving the capture of a position at a training base in southern Israel. Army officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the base was near Tzeelim in the southern Negev desert, 15 miles from the Egyptian border. Israel radio said the shell was fired by troops training at one section of the base and fell near other soldiers training in a different area. ``According to the information I have, the reason for the accident was human error,'' Maj. Gen. Uri Saguy told Israel army radio. Saguy, chief of army ground forces, was at the exercise and ordered an immediate investigation, the army said. One of those wounded, 29-year-old Yair Cohen, told Israel radio from his bed at Soroka Hospital in Beersheba: ``I stepped out of the armored personnel carrier and there was an explosion. ... I was hit in the leg by shrapnel. I felt pain in my leg and saw blood and started running.'' Israeli men up to the age of 55 serve up to a month each year on reserve duty after three years of compulsory service starting at age 18. One of those seriously wounded Tuesday was a female instructor.
AP880511-0260 	X	Sportscaster Howard Cosell drank ``before, during and after telecasts'' and once threw up on Don Meredith's cowboy boots during ``Monday Night Football,'' a former ABC Sports executive says in a forthcoming book. In ``Up Close & Personal: The Inside Story of Network Television Sports,'' Jim Spence also calls Cosell ``one of the unhappiest human beings on this planet.'' Spence, who worked at ABC for 26 years, was senior vice president of ABC Sports from 1978 until he left the network in 1986. He is now president of a sports production and marketing company. His book, co-written with Dave Diles, will be in bookstores next month. Spence describes Cosell as an insecure, overbearing man who became impossible to work with late in his career. ``He had made millions of dollars, traveled the world, been applauded and honored time and time again. Yet, today, I think he is one of the unhappiest human beings on this planet,'' he wrote. Cosell, 70, could not be reached for comment Wednesday. A woman answering the phone at his home said he was visiting his wife at a New York hospital, where she is recovering from surgery. According to Spence, Cosell's drinking sometimes became a ``major problem.'' During a ``Monday Night Football'' telecast from Philadelphia in 1970, he said, Cosell ``got so drunk he couldn't pronounce the name of the city he was in without slurring.'' Cosell left the booth after throwing up on Meredith, one of his broadcasting partners. At the request of ABC Sports chief Roone Arledge, Spence said, an ABC spokesman told reporters that Cosell became ill after one drink because of a reaction to flu medication he was taking. Spence said Cosell ``again got out of control'' during ABC's telecast of the 1984 American League playoffs when he kept kept interrupting colleague Al Michaels. Spence said he got a call the next day from Michael's agent, who said ``Al had told him that Cosell was drinking heavily and was impossibly argumentative, and that Al could no longer tolerate it.'' Cosell's relationship with Michaels and other ABC sportscasters reached a low point after he criticized them in his 1985 book, ``I Never Played the Game.'' ``We were all sick and tired of his bad-mouthing of everybody and everything,'' Spence wrote. Cosell left the network in 1985. In January, he started a nationally-syndicated TV show that recently went off the air.
AP900606-0131 	X	Switzerland wants to join the 152 countries in the International Monetary Fund, which plays a key role in the world's financial system, fund officials said Wednesday. Switzerland, concerned for its traditional neutrality, has been reluctant to join international organizations. In 1982, a government plan to join the fund was postponed after a Swiss voters defeated a proposal to join the United Nations. However, the Swiss government has had close informal relations with the fund. The fund's Board of Directors will consider the application, and a fund spokesman said formalities could be completed by the end of the year. All members of the fund also join its sister organization, the World Bank, the biggest source of loans to the Third World. Applications also are pending from Czechoslovakia and Bulgaria; China, Poland, Hungary and Romania already are members. The Soviet Union has said it would like to join, but the Bush administration has objected.
AP900708-0096 	X	President Bush and Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney said Sunday their nations would begin negotiations on an air pollution agreement this month. The announcement was foreseen a year ago when Bush decided to seek new controls on the sources of acid rain, an issue Canada has been complaining about for a decade. Both houses of Congress have passed different versions of legislation requiring utility smokestacks to reduce extensively emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides, the principal raw materials causing acid rain. Environmentalists monitoring the economic summit welcomed the announcement and said it was inevitable. In a session before the summit officially begins Monday, Bush and Mulroney set an informal timetable for talks to begin on an air pollution agreement. William Reilly, administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, will meet with his counterpart, Robert de Cotret, in Ottawa, Canada, on July 16, the leaders said. Formal negotiations should begin shortly after that, they said. ``I think this day will be long remembered in the history of our relationship for the significant departure it constitutes from past positions,'' Mulroney said. He and other Canadian leaders have been rebuffed in the past in their attempt to prod the United States into curbing pollutants. A White House announcement said the talks with Canada would cover monitoring of emissions, exchange of information and settlement of disputes. Scientists on both sides of the border agree about half the acid rain falling in eastern Canada originates from emissions generated by utilities and smokestacks in the United States. Because of wind patterns, about a quarter of the acid rain falling in the Adirondack Mountains of New York States originates in Canada. Former President Reagan argued that not enough was known to conclude that acid rain was a serious problem; Canada said marine life in as many as 14,000 lakes is in jeopardy. Environmentalists, meanwhile, denounced what they said was the failure of the seven summit nations to live up to the rhetoric of last year's meeting in Paris in which they pledged to protect the world's environment. The leaders agreed in 1989 to end production of chemicals that destroy the earth's protective ozone layer, said George T. Frampton, president of The Wilderness Society. ``The reality is that our forests are being cut just as fast as they were a year ago, Frampton said. ``Carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases are being emitted into the atmosphere at just the same high volume, or even greater, than that of a year ago. Population growth and ocean pollution have continued unabated.'' An environmental coalition of 150 groups is keeping a scorecard designed to hold governments accountable by publicizing their records, Frampton said. The environmentalists have already ranked the countries attending the summit. West Germany was rated top, followed by France, Britain, Canada, the United States, Japan and Italy. The countries were ranked based on their policies on conserving energy and reducing the threat of global warming; protecting biological diversity such as that found in tropical forests, abating pollution of the oceans, controlling population growth, helping the cleanup of Eastern Europe and helping develoing nations. Germany's high score was ``the best of a bad lot,'' said Jay Hair, executive vice president of the National Wildlife Federation.
AP900826-0020 	X	East Germany is about to disappear, to be swallowed up by its rich western neighbor, and the universal enthusiasm of a few months ago has waned. Polls say the vast majority of East Germans favor unification, which is barely a month away. But appearances don't always reinforce that conclusion. The ``We are one people'' banners that hung from trees, factories and homes during the pro-unity frenzy of early 1990 are gone. There are no cheering crowds and no convoys of motorists blasting their horns in anticipation of full unification on Oct. 3. Reality has set in, especially since the economic merger officially began in July. The issue foremost in the minds of East Germans is how to tackle the huge challenges facing them as their crumbling economy is absorbed by West Germany. Some show a decided lack of eagerness for unity, especially in Leipzig, birthplace of the uprising that ended 40 years of Stalinist rule less than a year ago. ``Maybe the GDR (East Germany) could have survived as a newly democratized country,'' said Maria Chudoba, who tends bar at the Cappuccino cafe in Leipzig. ``But now it's too late to turn back.'' Heinz Weisse, 74, and his 70-year-old wife, Gertrud, loading bales of hay onto a cart outside Weimar, said they wouldn't have minded seeing East Germany continue as a democracy. ``We're happy about unity, but it was not a necessary development,'' said Weisse, a retired hairdresser. ``There's a good side and bad side to everything.'' He said he and his wife had a relatively good life even under communism and, as pensioners, had been allowed to travel outside the country. ``We had our little house here, and we were born here, so we always came back,'' Weisse said. Most East Germans seem to see unification as their only salvation, but have come to realize it will not be an overnight cure for such problems as the high unemployment brought on by the July 1 economic union. ``We had our celebrations last year when the Berlin Wall came down,'' said Gisela Oswald, a 63-year-old retired opera singer in Weimar, an East German cultural center. ``We're glad unity is coming, but we've got to get to work now on some important problems, like putting the economy in order.'' East German cities are decaying, the bottom has dropped out of industrial production and unemployment is soaring. Most of East Germany's problems require money in huge amounts. Leipzig has a desperate housing shortage, crumbling public and commercial buildings and an antiquated sewerage system that has become a health hazard. Unification and the resulting West German funds undoubtedly will help solve the economic problems over the next few years, but also will introduce problems new to East Germany. ``Prostitution will come with the joblessness because people need money,'' said Peter Fernau, chief of detectives in Bitterfeld, an industrial city. ``We're also worried about heroin and the possible appearance of criminal gangs. There will be totally new dimensions to crime.'' Several aspects of life will change after unity. West Germany's legal system will be extended to the East, bringing in an entirely new code of laws. ``My officers are going to have to learn, learn, learn,'' Fernau said. Many East Germans fear West Germans will make all the decisions about their future. A recent poll by the West German magazine Stern indicated 88 percent of East Germans support unification, but 70 percent were disappointed by how it has been managed. The process has been largely orchestrated by Helmut Kohl, West Germany's chancellor. With the two Germanys united, East Germans will find themselves in stiff competition with West Germans jobs and business opportunities. They worry about coping. ``We never learned to persist in the face of adversity because, in the old system, that was of no use,'' said Ms. Oswald, the opera singer. ``This is something we must learn. ``But we also have many good qualities. We tend to be very close-knit and helpful to each other, and that's something we don't want to lose,'' she said. Peter Heyroth, Lutheran pastor in Bitterfeld, said the way unity has been managed is demoralizing many people. ``They see the trucks rumbling into town at 6 a.m. with goods from West Germany, while goods made in this country go unsold,'' he said. ``They see prices climbing, and they feel like their job training was worthless.'' In the small city of Saalfeld, on the eastern edge of the Thuringian forest, a former member of the disbanded Communist secret police pondered his future. He has a new job, but things aren't going well. ``People hoot at me behind my back,'' he said. ``It's really very difficult.'' ``I was never involved in any heavy intelligence, just checking passports and that kind of thing, but I'm ashamed of the corrupt government we supported,'' said the former agent, who asked that his name not be used. Then, seeming to speak for many East Germans, he said: ``Sure, mistakes were made during the Communist period, but should four decades of our past really be flushed down the sewer?''
AP880226-0103 	X	Gov. Mario Cuomo today accused lawyers for a black teen-ager who says she was assaulted by six white men of ``making up conditions'' as part of their continuing refusal to have the young woman testify about the case. Meanwhile, the teen-ager's aunt was quoted today as saying the girl hadn't even talked about the case with the lawyers representing her. Tawana Brawley, 16, missing for four days in November, was found wrapped in a plastic garbage bag and covered with feces, with racial insults scrawled on her body. She said she was assaulted by six white men, one of whom flashed a police badge. Miss Brawley, of Wappinger's Falls north of New York City, and her family have refused to be questioned further on the advice of attorneys C. Vernon Mason and Alton Maddox Jr. of New York City, the lawyers who used a similar tactic to get a special prosecutor appointed in the Howard Beach manslaughter case. Cuomo had nothing good to say about those lawyers at an impromptu news conference today. ``They said they had reasons they could not cooperate. ... It's clear now they don't really,'' Cuomo said of the two lawyers. ``These conditions obviously don't mean anything. They keep making up new conditions.'' Maddox and Mason were on the road this morning and not immediately available for comment on Cuomo's statements or today's report in the Middletown Times Herald Record newspaper that Miss Brawley hadn't talked to the lawyers about the case. Cuomo said again today that he was willing to meet with Miss Brawley if it would help push the stalled investigation along. However, he said he would do so only if her lawyers approved and state Attorney General Robert Abrams, Cuomo's special prosecutor in the case, said it would be helpful. In her interview with the Middletown newspaper, Juanita Brawley, who helped raise Tawana for eight years and who has spent time with her since her attack, said she is the only one who knows enough about the incident to keep the lawyers and the girl's mother informed. ``I know a few things that no one else knows,'' she said in an interview at her home. She said of Maddox: ``He has not talked to Tawana. He does not need to talk to Tawana.'' She did not elaborate. On Thursday, the Rev. Al Sharpton said the Brawley family would go to jail before testifying before a grand jury empaneled by Abrams. Sharpton, a minister from New York City who has said he is advising the family, said Cuomo is using ``macho politics'' in trying to compel Tawana's testimony. On Wednesday, Cuomo had called on Abrams to ask a grand jury when it convenes Monday in Poughkeepsie to force Miss Brawley and her family to cooperate with investigators. ``Someone is going to give him a macho award for beating up on a young girl who has already been abused,'' Sharpton said of Cuomo. This morning, Cuomo said that whatever happened with the grand jury, he thought it was ``very unlikely'' that Tawana would be sent to jail even if she continued her refusal to cooperate with Abrams' investigation. On Thursday, Cuomo had told New York City radio station WLIB that he can't understand why the Brawley family will not cooperate with authorities. ``I see no reason, no common-sense reason, no difficult-to-understand reason, why there is not cooperation,'' Cuomo said. ``At one point you have to ask yourself, why aren't they cooperating with the prosecutors?''
AP900702-0062 	X	Mikhail S. Gorbachev moved to take firm control of a watershed Communist Party congress today, fending off a call for his resignation and aggressively defending his reform efforts. The president and party leader seemed to have succeeded in averting a possible challenge to his leadership by hard-liners and the threat of a walkout by radical reformers. ``Voices are being heard that all of our present problems should be blamed on perestroika,'' Gorbachev told the delegates to the 28th Soviet Communist Party Congress in a keynote speech. He acknowledged that the party's top leaders had made mistakes, especially in ethnic relations where ``we did not see the dangers.'' Hundreds of people have been killed in recent waves of ethnic violence in Armenia and Azerbaijan, central Asian cities, and other places. Also, the three Baltic republics are trying to secede. In today's speech, though, Gorbachev laid much blame for the nation's pressing problems _ including the economic crisis _ on the ``heavy legacy'' of previous leaders dating to Josef Stalin. Gorbachev also attacked the Soviet Union's vast bureaucracy, saying many functionaries only cared about protecting their own power and privileges. Radical reform is vital, he insisted, because ``the U.S.S.R. is rapidly becoming a second-rate power.'' He offered few specifics but said Communists must: _``Stop the brain and talent drain abroad.'' _Pass legislation ending the government monopoly on the manufacture of farm machinery ``to provide for an influx of foreign capital in this area.'' _Quickly make the Soviet currency convertible on the world market. _Negotiate a new treaty uniting the 15 Soviet republics on a looser basis while preserving the nation. In the days leading up the party congress, it appeared the Soviet leader might face a challenge from hard-liners for the top party leadership post, and that radical reformers might walk out and split the party. But today, Gorbachev seemed successful in his exhortations for unity among party reformers and moderates. Members of the radical Democratic Platform said they had dropped plans to walk out of the congress to form their own party. Also, hard-liners who last month demanded that Gorbachev give up his post as Communist Party general secretary said they planned to support him, although they might use the new policy of openness to criticize some policies. ``Gorbachev must be the party leader,'' Soviet Premier Nikolai Ryzhkov told reporters at the congress. Public opinion polls indicate the people's trust in the party _ until Gorbachev's tenure the country's sole political force _ has waned significantly as it fails to cope with mounting discontent. Coal miners have threatened a one-day strike for July 11, a day before the scheduled end of the congress, to protest the failure of the Communist leadership to improve living conditions. The nationally televised opening session was tempestuous, in contrast to previous congresses, which were carefully orchestrated by the party leadership. This time, speaker after speaker rose from the floor to offer resolutions and proposals clearly not on Gorbachev's agenda, including a call for the party leadership to resign. Gorbachev, who heads the party as general secretary, did not comment on the demand and the 4,683 delegates approved his proposal to return to the issue later. Conservatives had been threatening for two weeks to try to oust Gorbachev as party chief, but it appeared that threat had diminished. Hard-liner Ivan Polozkov said he would not run against Gorbachev for the top party post. However, Polozkov _ elected last month as leader of the largely conservative Communist Party of the Russian republic _ said he expected Politburo members to explain ``what they see as the way out of the situation that has been created, the loss of direction for which they must answer.'' For the first time, the 12 members of the Politburo are scheduled to report to the congress on their work since the last party congress, in 1986. The progressive Democratic Platform demands that the party give up its cells in the police, military, the KGB and in nearly every workplace. It had authorized its estimated 100 delegates to walk out and form a new party if they are not happy with the session. Such a split would have been the first in the party since 1921. But Sergei Stankevich, a leading reformer from Moscow, said the Democratic Platform leaders had decided against the walkout. Gorbachev, who heads the government as president, wants to use the congress to transform what have traditionally been the most powerful Soviet institutions, rewriting party rules that affect all 19 million party members. The proposed changes include replacing the general secretary with a party chairman and first secretary and renaming and expanding the Politburo, thus diluting the power of each member. Other proposals include nominating multiple candidates for party jobs and restricting elected party officials to two terms. Gorbachev wants to strip the party of involvement in day-to-day administration of the government and economy. He seeks to end the party's domination of government. His most important proposed rule changes would affect the Central Committee, the party's policy-making body and a bastion of conservative holdovers. Politburo member Lev Zaikov has said 90 percent of the 249 Central Committee members should be replaced by younger people. The congress will elect a new Central Committee. Gorbachev had one previous chance to win control of the committee _ at the 1986 congress _ but had been in office just 11 months and lacked the power.
AP900531-0175 	X	President Bush and Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev on Thursday directed their top diplomatic aides to meet next week to seek a post-summit agreement on the military face of a united Germany. A meeting between Secretary of State James A. Baker III and Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze was set for Tuesday in Copenhagen, after Bush and Gorbachev reached an impasse on whether a new Germany would be a member of NATO. A second June session, in Berlin, was tentatively scheduled for the two aides. Bush and Gorbachev exchanged what the Soviet leader called new approaches, and Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman, said optimistically: ``The ideas presented amount to a way to meld the concerns of the United States and the Soviet Union.'' Later, a Bush administration official sought to play down any perception that there had been a breakthrough. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Bush would call West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl within the next day or so ``to reassure him that we have not changed our position'' on a united Germany. Bush is determined to secure NATO membership for the new Germany once it is created, while Gorbachev is equally intent on keeping the country out of the Western alliance or at least restricting the size of the German army. ``Both the U.S. side and the Soviet side put forth certain ideas and suggestions'' on Thursday, Gorbachev said. He gave no details, but a Soviet official told The Associated Press the Soviets wanted Germany's future taken up by the 35-nation European Security Conference. ``I hope that we understand each other's concerns better,'' Gorbachev said as he left the White House. ``This exchange of views now requires that our foreign ministers have a more in-depth discussion,'' he told reporters. ``I think it is not here that the German question will be resolved.''' Bush said later that ``certainly'' was the case. But the U.S. president, who appeared outside the White House shortly after Gorbachev left, added, ``When he said that differences had been narrowed somewhat, I'm taking some heart from that and we'll continue these discussions tomorrow.'' ``Fundamental positions have not changed,'' he said. Bush offered his own public assurances to Gorbachev that ``we can work together'' to reduce East-West tensions on a broad front. The two leaders aired their differences on Germany publicly at a morning arrival ceremony and then privately in the Oval Office. In addition to the Baker-Shevardnadze session in Copenhagen, U.S. officials said Baker also will meet separately in the Danish capital with West German Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher, who has been the point man for the West in trying to work out an accommodation with Moscow. Genscher, for instance, proposed keeping NATO troops out of what is now East Germany after the merger with West Germany. Baker, Shevardnadze and Genscher had all planned to be in Copenhagen to attend a 35-nation conference on human rights. A meeting also had previously been scheduled among the four World War II allies and the two Germanys in Berlin on the subject of Germany's future. Gorbachev told reporters in a White House driveway that Bush defended his viewpoint on Germany during their talks. ``I think dictation is unacceptable,'' the Soviet leader said, but he did not renew his accusation of the previous day that the United States was indeed trying to dictate to the Soviet Union. Meanwhile, Germany and unrest in the Baltics dominated the meeting Baker held with Shevardnadze at the White House while the two presidents were in the Oval office, U.S. officials said. Just a few blocks away, meanwhile, top-level U.S. and Soviet negotiators held a fifth day of talks on what will be the summit's crowning achievements _ a declaration of basic accord to cut long-range nuclear missiles and a pledge to quickly launch negotiations for even deeper reductions once the treaty is finished. But Deputy Soviet Prime Minister Viktor K. Karpov and Under Secretary of State Reginald Bartholomew and their aides evidently were unable to make significant progress in arrangements for the withdrawal of tens of thousands of U.S. and Soviet troops and tanks from Europe. This ``is an area where we will probably not be able to reach specific agreement at this point,'' Fitzwater said. Gorbachev has slowed work on this parallel treaty partly out of concern that a strengthened Germany would be enrolled in the Western alliance while his own allies in the Warsaw Pact drift away from the Soviet orbit. U.S. and Soviet negotiators held three rounds of talks Thursday at the State Department. Baker, appearing on ABC-TV's ``Good Morning America,'' made plain there would be no retreat in the U.S. position. ``All of the Western allies, all of the countries of Western Europe, and, indeed, three countries of the Warsaw Pact, think that this would promote stability in Europe, that it's important that that happen,'' Baker said. ``So the Soviet Union is, to some extent, alone among the nations involved in this who have a problem with it. So our job is to see if we can better explain it,'' Baker said. Bush, in a White House arrival ceremony for the Soviet leader, hailed the impending unification of East Germany with West Germany as a milestone toward ``enduring cooperation in a Europe whole and free.'' But mindful of Gorbachev's reservations about a more powerful neighbor, the president assured him ``we can work together at this historic moment'' to reduce remaining East-West tensions. ``The trenches of the Cold War are disappearing,'' Gorbachev said in response. In a thinly veiled reference to his concerns about German unification and U.S. demands that the new country have NATO membership, the Soviet leader recalled the Allies' victory over Nazism in World War II and, earlier, the defeat of Germany in World War I. Gorbachev then pointedly expressed a hope that ``these horrible wars will forever remain a thing of the past.'' There were indications the two sides may be in a mood to compromise. U.S. officials are hinting at negotiations in the future to scale down both the German and Soviet armies in a tradeoff deal between NATO and the Warsaw Pact.
AP900906-0064 	X	Fitzhugh Green, a retired government official and biographer of President Bush, died of heart problems Wednesday at age 72. He died at Newport Hospital in Rhode Island. After more than 25 years in the federal government, Green resigned in 1970 to run for Congress from Rhode Island as a Republican. After losing, he returned to Washington, working for the Environmental Protection Agency from 1971 to 1977, and again from 1983 to 1985. Green wrote several books, including ``George Bush: An Intimate Portrait'' published in 1989.
AP880728-0022 	X	People victimized by erroneous drug test results frequently face loss of their jobs and few are in a position to defend themselves adequately, Congress has been told. Mark L. Waple, a Fayetteville, N.C., attorney who has handled more than 500 drug test cases in the past six years, said Wednesday that such a person ``loses the presumption of innocence and is instead burdened with a presumption of guilt.'' Waple said that in at least 75 percent of his cases, ``there was a significant legal or scientific irregularity which substantially affected the reliability of the ultimate conclusion that the individual had in fact used a controlled substance.'' He said his clients have faced threats of incarceration, loss of security clearances and hospital credentials as well as loss of employment, rank and position. Waple told the House Energy and Commerce subcommittee on oversight and investigations that the combination of the ``presumption of guilt'' and complex legal and scientific issues makes it very difficult for a person to defend against the positive test result. ``Very few individuals who test positive for controlled substances will have a proper background either through experience or education to know where to begin to defend themselves,'' he said. ``Drug testing laboratories guard their scientific data, their test results, their mathematical computations and their standard operating procedures very carefully.'' He called for ``complete and total disclosure of all of the data supporting a positive test result.''
AP900410-0077 	X	Gov. George Mickelson told an interviewer he learned of a Nov. 28 incident at the governor's mansion from his son. The governor had kept mum for months about the incident, listed on a Nov. 30 Pierre police log as a rape. In an interview broadcast Monday night on television station KELO, Mickelson was asked how he first learned that something had happened Nov. 28. ``My son told me,'' Mickelson said. ``Before it came through on the police report?'' interviewer Steve Hemmingsen asked. ``Yes,'' the governor replied. However, Mickelson said through his press aide today that he misunderstood Hemmingsen's question when the interview was tapedin principle announced last Friday by Chicago-based UAL. The formalization of the buyout pact sets into motion the process for United's three employee unions to approve wage cuts and other contract concessions designed to save $2 billion over five years as a contribution toward the buyout. Under the agreement reached Friday, UAL's 71,000 employees will buy 100 percent of the company by exchanging for each share of UAL stock $155 in cash, $35 in UAL notes and one share in Covia Corp. valued at $11. Covia is the UAL subsidiary that owns United's 50 percent interest in the Apollo computerized reservations system. The deal, valued at $201 a share, could take up to eight months to complete. The agreement gives the employees four months to secure financing and another four months to complete the deal. UAL's stock was down 25 cents at $160.75 in early trading today on the New York Stock Exchange.
AP880722-0011 	X	The head of an Arab-American group is condemning a federal prosecutor who said one of eight men accused of illegal pro-Libyan activities was involved in a plot to assassinate a high-level U.S. official. An administration source later identified the target as former National Security Council aide Oliver L. North. The comments by U.S. Attorney Henry Hudson about an assassination plot are ``outrageous ... unsubstantiated allegations which are not even part of the charges in this case,'' Abdeen Jabara, president of the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, said Thursday. Hudson made the comments Wednesday in Alexandria, Va., in a court appearance by six men charged with violating the U.S. economic boycott of Libya. The men allegedly used money sent from Libya to support pro-Libya demonstrations in the United States and to finance travel to Libya by American minorities. The boycott allows such money to be used only for the educational expenses of Libyan students in the United States. Two other men were charged in the same case, in Denver and Ann Arbor, Mich. During the Alexandria court appearance, Hudson said one of those charged, Mousa Hawamda, ``was involved in a potential plot to assassinate a high government official of the United States.'' An administration source, speaking on the condition of anonymity, identified the target as North, who as a National Security Council aide masterminded counterterrorism activities against Libya, including the April 1986 bombing of Tripoli. One of Hawamda's attorneys, Russell Gaspar, said in an interview that ``we deny on behalf of Hawamda involvement in any sort of assassination plot.'' He said he and Hawamda's other attorney, Ray Hanna, would seek to have their client released. All six were detained without bond. Jabara also said his office has received a recent rash of calls from Arab-Americans across the nation who have been harassed by the FBI with unannounced visits to them and their neighbors that were intended to gather information about political views and activities as opposed to criminal activities. Sue Schnitzer, an FBI spokeswoman, had no comment on Jabara's remarks. She said information about political views and activities might be sought in investigations involving, for example, foreign counterintelligence or terrorism. But she denied that the bureau would conduct an investigation that was politically motivated.
AP880922-0040 	X	A Nigerian worker was crushed to death when he was pinned in the doorway of an elevator in the basement of the Transamerica pyramid building, police said. Washington B. Olaye, 32, was attempting to pull a mail cart into the elevator Wednesday morning when ``for no apparent reason'' the elevator began moving up, said police Officer Sherman Ackerson. A co-worker, identified as Isiah Sampson, was inside holding the doors open for Olaye, Ackerson said. Both workers were heading to the 18th floor to Montgomery Securities, where they worked. Olaye, standing on the elevator's threshhold, was pinned between the elevator and the roof of the basement floor, Ackerson said. Fire Department personnel arrived and pried the door open, but Olaye, who lived in nearby Oakland, was pronounced dead at the scene by paramedics. An investigation was being conducted by federal and state worker safety officials and the Otis Elevator Co., the manufacturer. Elevators are not supposed to operate when the doors are open.
AP900426-0201 	X	The population is growing so fast it threatens to overwhelm the economy, but the Philippine government, demographers and Roman Catholic Church can't agree on what to do about it. An official survey conducted in 1988 found the Philippines to be the 14th most populous country in the world and the eighth in Asia. Its population grew from 7.64 million in 1903 to 19 million in 1948, then more than doubled in two decades to 48.1 million in 1980, when the last census was taken, the government report said. A new census is to be taken this month. Official projections put the number of Filipinos at 75 milllion to 80 million in the year 2000, or 10 times the number a century ago. President Corazon Aquino has called for a program to make sure the population increase, now about 2.4 percent a year, will not ``outstrip our other resources and annul what gains we make every year.'' Government population-control programs have stalled since the late President Ferdinand E. Marcos fled and Mrs. Aquino gained power in 1986, with strong support from the Catholic hierarchy. Critics say there is little evidence of an effective program or the political will to forge one. Local governments also have been lax because large populations mean more economic aid from Manila. Virtually all birth control programs, such as distribution of condoms, are financed by foreign governments or the United Nations. Population growth has declined from a peak of more than 3 percent annually in the 1950s, but Filipinos still multiply faster than the people of more prosperous nations of Southeast Asia. The rate is a full percentage point above Thailand and about 0.1 percent ahead of Malaysia. Nearly four of 10 Filipinos are under age 15, which strains educational, health and other public services. Officials and demographers say most Filipinos in the rural areas, where nearly 48 percent of the people live, prefer large families to provide cheap farm labor. High infant mortality also encourages having more children. Awareness of birth control methods is more widespread, but the number of couples using them dropped from 45 percent in 1986 to 36 in 1988, according to a survey by the Population Institute at the University of the Philippines. Lack of complete information and the strong male dominance in Philippine society are major reasons women avoid contraceptives, officials say. Despite growing awareness of the risks of overpopulation, critics say there is no consensus of the government, church and demographers on how to avoid it. Mamita Pardo de Tavera, secretary of social welfare and head of the Population Commission, disputes the idea that a large population must be a national burden. She takes a dual approach: educating the public about contraception and encouraging ``population development,'' or integration of government aid projects for the poor. Those who disagree say the central task is to reduce the number of births. ``You cannot have development unless you have a more manageable population, in terms of size, growth and composition,'' said Corazon Raymundo, director of the university Population Institute. A major factor in the population debate has been the Roman Catholic hierarchy, including Cardinal Jaime Sin, archbishop of Manila, who has great influence in the Aquino administration. ``We believe government should create job opportunities, develop natural resources, harness all these things for the sake of the people who are living now, not take measures to cut down population,'' said Monsignor Cesar Pagulayan, spokesman of the Family Life Apostolate of the Catholic Bishops Conference of the Philippines. Mercedes Concepcion, former dean of the Population Institute, said the clergy had become aggressive in discouraging use of contraceptives. She said some members of Congress recognize the population problem, but ``have been silenced by the fact that the cardinal has been very active in threatening them with hell fire and brimstone . .. if they do something, particularly in terms of legislation.'' ``Since there is no signal from the top,'' meaning Mrs. Aquino, ``they know they will be by themselves only, unprotected,'' Mrs. Concepcion told an interviewer. The change in government in February 1986 created a new set of policy makers ``who have to be conditioned to the situation,'' she said. ``It's a massive training again.'' Mrs. Pardo de Tavera said the government program had been misunderstood. ``We are a pluralistic society and we have to give people choices, not only in the method but in the approaches,'' she said. ``We have to go beyond methods. We have to go to the values, education, other factors besides fertility.''
AP881228-0065 	X	Hours after three homeless people were evicted from one boarded-up house owned by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, they moved into another unoccupied HUD house, officials said. The three are members of the Union for the Homeless, and HUD spokesman Ken Barnard accused them of seeking publicity. Police evicted Clotilde Lewis, 36, Duwayne Jackson, 39, and Floretta Logan, 27, from the first house Tuesday afternoon. Homeless Union members had helped them break into the home on Saturday. Lewis was handcuffed and taken to a police station when she refused to leave the first house but was released without being charged. Barnard said the three were trespassing in a house bought by a family that planned to move in later in the week. Hours after their eviction, the three settled into a boarded-up four-bedroom house with three kerosene heaters, clothes and hamburgers from a fast-food restaurant. They remained there early today while officials considered whether to arrest them and file trespassing charges, said William Harris, deputy director of the Detroit HUD office. Wayne Pippin, president of the Union for the Homeless, said after the eviction Tuesday that HUD owns many vacant homes and ``should be ashamed to kick someone out of this home, which is needed so badly.'' Jackson, unemployed after working at odd jobs, said housing is difficult to find on $150 a month from public assistance. ``This is a major emergency situation,'' said Sally Pattee, a group spokeswoman. ``The temporary shelters have been full since July. When people need temporary shelter, they need it now.'' Barnard said HUD makes its properties available to the homeless through organizations such as the Detroit Non-profit Housing Coalition. HUD obtains houses when buyers default on government-backed mortgages.
AP901115-0063 	X	A minor earthquake shook pictures off walls in two central Oklahoma communities early today but experts said there was no connection with a potential major quake on the New Madrid Fault. The Oklahoma Geological Survey said the quake registered 3.6 on the Richter scale of ground movement. A quake of magnitude 3.5 can cause slight damage. A quake of magnitude 2 is the smallest normally felt by humans. The National Weather Service said it had received reports of a tremor about 5:45 a.m. that was felt in Rush Springs, about 40 miles southwest of Oklahoma City, and Lindsay, about 28 miles south of Oklahoma City. The geological survey said the quake was centered 5 miles north of Lindsay. ``Police departments in those areas indicate that pictures fell from walls, objects were knocked off tables and out of cabinets and many residents were awakened,'' the weather service said in a statement. Geological survey director Charles Mankin said earthquakes are common in Oklahoma, with a couple a week detected by sensitive seismographs. ``We rarely record them as high as 3.6,'' he said. ``But a small earthquake in that area is not unusual.'' Larry Thompson of KBLP radio in Lindsay said the station was flooded with calls after the tremor was felt. At the police department, dispatcher Lois Knapp said the shaking lasted about two seconds. ``This police department is cement and brick and rock, and it moved,'' she said. There has been increased concern about a Midwestern earthquake since a New Mexico climatologist projected that there could be a major one in early December along the New Madrid Fault, which runs from Cairo, Ill., to Marked Tree, Ark. The projection, based on the fact that tidal forces will be particularly strong early next month, is disputed by most scientists. Mankin said there was no link between today's quake and the New Madrid Fault. ``Most of the earthquakes in Oklahoma we have not been able to relate to faults,`` Mankin said. ``They're very shallow earthquakes and we know they're from some ground adjustment, obviously, but we can't relate them to some fault.'' In 1811-1812, a series of quakes estimated at up to 8 on the Richter scale struck the New Madrid Fault, ringing church bells in Washington, D.C., more than 850 miles away. Jim Lawson, chief geophysicist at the geological survey, said earlier this week that even if a major quake occurred along the New Madrid Fault, its effect in Oklahoma would be negligible.
AP900624-0060 	X	For years on TV's ``Newhart,'' John Voldstad only grinned when introduced by brother Larry as one of the silent Darryls. But he managed recently to get out the words ``I do'' and wed 20-year-old Kellye Fowler in Gadsden, Ala. Voldstad, 39, who played the chubby, blond Darryl, met Kellye in August when he was playing tennis in a celebrity tournament in Macon, Ga., and she asked him for an autograph. ``She was spelling Kellye with a ye, and I thought, 'Umm, that's very pretty,''' Voldstad says in the July 2 issue of People magazine. Kellye's mom wasn't too keen about the romance and _ not trusting those Hollywood types _ went along on most of the couple's dates. Kellye, who wants to act, appeared on ``Newhart'' as an extra before the show went off the air. But it's love, not a career, she wanted from Voldstad, she says: ``I love John and he loves me, and if you can't see that you must be blind.'' As for their 19-year age difference: ``John's 25 mentally anyway,'' she shrugs.
AP880419-0088 	X	There's something missing from the carved marble figure of Jim Bowie on the 60-foot shrine to Texas heroes that stands in front of the Alamo. It's the tip of his nose. The disfigured face of Bowie, among the best known of the 189 defenders of the Alamo, was discovered Monday when members of a wreath-bearing procession took part in an event known as the Pilgrimage to the Alamo. Repairs are expected to begin in two weeks, after a grandstand is removed from Alamo Plaza, officials say. The solution? Glue. Although vandalism is considered a possibility, officials also say the marble might have flaked off. ``After 50 years, if that's the only damage, that's not too bad,'' said Alamo Curator Emeritus Charles J. Long said. Long, a sculptor and curator of the Pompeo Coppini-Waldine Tauch Studios, where the Cenotaph was made, discovered the damage Feb. 12, while walking by the Alamo on his way to eat lunch at a nearby restaurant. ``I saw his nose was missing as I walked by, and I looked around and found pieces of it on the ground,'' Long said. Long informed officials of the San Antonio Parks and Recreation Department and current Alamo Curator Steve Beck, but the damage did not become public knowledge until Monday. ``The tip of the nose is in good shape. It just needs to be glued back on,'' Long said. Long said the tip can be glued with ordinary epoxy cement. Marble dust will be mixed with the cement to fill in gaps.
AP900124-0002 	X	Two men accused of conspiring to break into an Army computer network and the phone system surrendered Tuesday in federal court, but the man the government says was the ringleader remained at large. Silicon Valley computer experts Mark K. Lottor, 25, and Robert E. Gilligan, 31, turned themselves over to authorities before U.S. District Court Magistrate Patricia Trumbull. Lottor and Gilligan entered innocent pleas and were released on $100,000 bond each. They are to return to court next week. Lottor faces five courts and Gilligan six in the government's 19-count indictment alleging a scheme to steal military secrets and phone numbers from the FBI investigation of former Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos. Authorities were still searching Tuesday for 24-year-old Kevin L. Poulsen, who is charged in 16 counts. Poulsen faces up to 37 years in prison if convicted. The other two suspects face 20 years each if found guilty of all charges. Lottor works for SRI International and Gilligan works for Sun Microsystems of Mountain View. Poulsen, a former SRI worker who is believed to have fled to Los Angeles after leaving a job with Sun, was an unindicted co-conspirator in the 1984 computer break-in case at the University of California at Los Angeles. Poulsen's friend, hacker Ron Austin, was convicted on charges related to the break-in. Authorities said Poulsen used the computer handle ``Dark Dante'' at the time. Federal officials contend the latest computer tampering began in 1985 and started to fall apart in February 1988 when police found telephone equipment belonging to Pacific Bell in a storage locker rented by Poulsen. ``As far as techniques, you can see this started out as a burglary,'' said FBI Agent William Smith. ``That's what we have: burglars who came upon equipment that allowed them to go beyond the common crime of burglary.''
AP881025-0024 	X	Republican Sen. Dave Durenberger challenged Democratic opponent Hubert H. Humphrey III during a debate Monday night to stop all negative campaign advertising, and Humphrey refused. Durenberger, in his opening statement during the hour-long televised debate at Carleton College here, told Humphrey that Minnesotans don't like nasty ads and are turning off to the candidates because of them. ``Tonight I am taking all my commercials off the air that have any reference to you, and I'm asking you to do the same thing,'' Durenberger said. Humphrey, who has trailed Durenberger by more than 10 percentage points in all recent independent polls, said he won't stop running advertisements that focus on the 10-year veteran senator's record. ``It's important for the people of Minnesota to know the record,'' Humphrey, the state attorney general, responded during the forum sponsored by the League of Women Voters of Minnesota. ``The people of Minnesota, you're going to rehire someone, or you're going to hire someone new,'' Humphrey said. Durenberger said after the debate that he would respond to Humphrey's commercials with paid air time if he has to, but will no longer run ads such as two recent ones that portrayed Humphrey as being soft on crime. Humphrey told reporters, ``Campaigns are on the record ... and I wish this would be a nicer campaign, but frankly his record's not very good for Minnesota.'' Humphrey focused his attacks on a Senate Ethics Committee investigation into comments Durenberger made to supporters in 1987 that the committee determined had the appearance of leaking sensitive national security information. The committee took no action, but Humphrey said it rebuked Durenberger.
AP880322-0224 	X	Foreign Minister R.F. Botha apologized on behalf of the government Tuesday for a police search of the West German consul's home, but also criticized West Germany's policies. Police searched the home of Erhard Loeser, West Germany's acting consul-general, on Monday. They were looking for Heinrich Grosskopf, a 24-year-old white South African accused of a car-bombing last week that killed three people. Officials claim Grosskopf carried out that bombing and at least one other on orders from the outlawed African National Congress, the predominantly black guerrilla group fighting to end domination by South Africa's white minority. Botha gave no reason why police decided to search Loeser's home and coupled his apology with an attack on Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher of West Germany for suggesting a boycott of South African products as a means of protesting the apartheid racial policy. He said the suggestion was ``callously irresponsible'' and a boycott would ``deprive people of their livelihood.'' The foreign minister also criticized Genscher for questioning the fairness of legal proceedings for the ``Sharpeville Six,'' a group of blacks granted a one-month stay of execution last week. They were convicted of complicity in the mob killing of a black official. By law and custom, apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which South Africa's 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. The 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services.
AP881022-0163 	X	Thousands of Nicaraguans, unfamiliar with hurricanes and jaded by repeated warnings of possible U.S. invasions, refused to flee Hurricane Joan's deadly path Saturday. The hurricane, with 125 mph winds, destroyed about 90 percent of the buildings in the Caribbean city of Bluefields and slashed through the Corn Islands off the Nicaraguan coast. The two areas have a population of about 68,000. Although thousands were evacuated, thousands of others remained in their homes despite warnings, President Daniel Ortega said in a speech broadcast on radio and television. Initial reports said 15 Nicaraguans were killed Saturday and the overall death toll from the storm that began ravaging the South and Central American coasts last Monday was at least 65 in Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama, Colombia and Venezuela. The hurricane weakened to a tropical storm, but torrential rains continued and Nicaraguan officials said they would order forced evacuations if need be as the storm struck Managua, 180 miles west of Bluefields. David Zuniga, director of civil defense, angrily called for people to go to shelters. ``Sandinista police and the EPS (the army) have orders to evacuate by force if necessary,'' Zuniga said on television. Some who refused to evacuate low-lying ground said they didn't believe the government, which has on numerous occasions called on the people to mobilize against a U.S. invasion. ``The people were tired of these calls. They don't believe them,'' said Ruben Hernandez, who refused to evacuate his home in the Las Torres neighborhood on the edge of Lake Managua. ``The government has told us so many lies that we just don't believe them any more,'' said a Managua woman who spoke with the condition she not be identified. Others said people didn't realize what damage a hurricane could inflict _ the last hurricane to strike Nicaragua was in 1911. Government radio repeatedly issued storm warnings. Ortega said during his address that he had visited Bluefields on Friday and urged people to leave. ``I told the people to leave their homes because it is easier to rebuild your home than to reconstruct your life,'' he said. Only a few thousand people left Bluefields in a government evacuation program Friday, although others fled coastal zones. Authorities feared Joan's heavy rains could cause more flooding, especially in Managua, which is relatively flat and poorly drained. Thousands of refugees from the seven-year civil war with the U.S.-supported rebels known as Contras have moved into Managuya, swelling its population to 1 million. Many live in wooden shacks beside dirt fields. Civil defense committees piled sand bags in front of many buildings, cut tree limbs that might be blown down and cleared drainage ditches. Windows of the eight-story Hotel Intercontinental were taped over.
AP880323-0255 	X	The Justice Department says it will sue real estate developer Donald Trump for allegedly violating federal notification provisions in his purchases of stock in Holiday Corp. and Bally Manufacturing Corp. At the request of the Federal Trade Commission, the department said it will file a lawsuit accusing Trump of violating the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act fro Aug. 22 through Nov. 9, 1986 when he bought stock in Memphis, Tenn.-based Holiday without complying with reporting and waiting-period requirements. The suit also will accuse Trump, an operator of hotels and casinos, of violating the act from Nov. 13, 1986 through Jan. 22, 1987 when he bought stock in Bally without complying with the law's requirements. Discussions are under way to determine if a settlement can be reached, the department said in a statement issued Tuesday. The act imposes notification and waiting requirements on companies and people over a certain size that are contemplating mergers or purchases of stocks or assets. The law is intended to improve antitrust enforcement by ensuring advance notice to the government of significant mergers and similar transactions. Trump sought control of Bally, a Chicago-based hotel and amusements company, in 1987 but ended the attempt after Bally agreed to buy 2.6 million shares back from him. Holiday disclosed in September 1986, amid unconfirmed takeover rumors, that Trump had purchased between 2 percent and 5 percent of its stock. Holiday later underwent a recapitalization and adopted a ``poison pill'' takeover defense to thwart potential suitors. Separately, the Justice Department said it will sue Wickes Companies Inc. of Santa Monica, Calif., accusing the company of violating the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act in its purchase of stock in the Owens-Corning Fiberglass Corp. of Toledo, Ohio in late 1986. But the department will file a proposed consent decree under which Wickes, which sells lumber and other building materials, would pay $300,000 to settle the matter. Sanford C. Sigoloff, Wickes chairman and chief executive officer, issued a statement saying his company did not believe it violated the disclosure requirements but settled the matter to avoid litigation costs. Sigoloff also contended Wickes had filed under the law in connection with the stock purchase and the FTC initially had cleared the filing. ``This settlement involves a long-standing technical dispute between the FTC and the investment community over the use of option agreements under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Rules,'' Sigoloff stated. In a third case, the department said it will accuse Roxboro Investments Ltd. and a subsidiary, First City Financial Corp. Ltd., both of Vancouver, British Columbia, and three officers of the companies, with violating the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act. They will be accused based on their purchase in early 1986 of stock in Ashland Oil Inc. of Russell, Ky. The three officers are Samuel Belzberg, president of Roxboro and First City, and Hyman Belzberg and William Belzberg, vice presidents of the two companies. The complaint will accuse the two companies and the three officers of violating the act from Feb. 19 through April 2, 1986 when they bought Ashland stock without complying with some of the law's requirements. First City attorneys issued a statement late Tuesday saying they had been discussing a settlement with the department and believed a final agreement would be reached soon.
AP881114-0111 	X	Mike Mansfield announced his retirement Monday after 11 years as U.S. ambassador to Japan and a public service career that began at age 14, when he lied about his age to enter the Navy during World War I. The 85-year-old former Senate majority leader has worked tirelessly for strong U.S.-Japanese relations, which he described as excellent, with most problems resolved. He said he would leave his post before Jan. 1. Mansfield said he and his wife, Maureen, made the decision together. ``We decided it was time for me to resign, subject to the will of the president, and that has been done,'' the Democrat from Montana told reporters at the U.S. Embassy. He said they would divide their time between Washington and his home state, spending winters in Florida. Senior Japanese officials expressed appreciation for Mansfield's years of effort for improved relations. ``It is very regrettable that Ambassador Mansfield is resigning,'' aides quoted Foreign Minister Sosuke Uno as saying. ``He was a good friend who understands Japan quite well. ``It was truly fortunate that we had a person like Ambassador Mansfield in Tokyo for a long time. ... His warm personality has earned everyone's respect and love.'' Mansfield set records for length of service with 16 years as Senate majority leader and 11 as ambassador to Japan. The Japanese welcomed his appointment to the Tokyo mission by President Jimmy Carter because of Mansfield's prestige in Congress and his belief in the importance of East Asia to the United States. He has called the next century the ``century of the Pacific basin'' and often said the relationship with Japan is the most important to Washington, ``bar none.'' Speculation arose that Mansfield would retire after coronary bypass surgery in January, but he returned to work in the spring. The ambassador said Monday he and his wife agreed at the time to delay retirement until after major trade issues were resolved and the U.S. presidential election was over. The recent U.S. decision, with Mansfield's support, against trying to force the opening of the Japanese rice market at this time helped clear the way for his retirement, he said. Trade problems are the major cause of friction between the United States and Japan but relations generally are in ``excellent shape,'' Mansfield said. `In the field of politics and diplomacy we work very well together,'' he told the news conference. ``In the field of security, the relationship couldn't be better, and in the area of investment things are going very nicely.'' Some people both in and outside the U.S. government have criticized Mansfield as being too accommodating toward the Japanese. He says in response that Japanese markets have opened in many ways and Japan has assumed a significant part of the security burden in Asia. He advocates a broad trade agreement to ease friction and the idea is being studied, but is unlikely to materialize soon. Mansfield said Monday he treated the Japanese as he would wish to be treated and they responded in kind. he called the Tokyo years ``the most enjoyable in our lives.'' After beginning seven decades of service to the United States with the Navy enlistment at 14, Mansfield served in the Army and the Marine Corps. He was in Asia with the Marines. Before his election to Congress in 1942, he taught Far Eastern and Latin American history at Montana State University in Missoula. The school since has been renamed the University of Montana. In 1944, Mansfield was sent on a foreign policy mission to China at the request of President Franklin D. Roosevelt. Before his appointment to Tokyo, he had returned to China several times at the Chinese government's invitation.
AP880817-0316 	X	More than a year after the United States slapped penalty tariffs on Japan for allegedly violating an agreement on semiconductor trade, Japanese officials are stepping up pressure on Washington to remove the penalties before President Reagan leaves office. U.S. officials counter that the Japanese government continues to renege on a pledge to boost the market share of imported U.S. chips. The $300ffs, since reduced to $165 million, were the strongest trade retaliation the United States has taken against Japan since World million in tari War II. ``The problem remains of a lack of market access,'' said a senior U.S. trade official, speaking on condition of anonymity. ``There is a certain goal, and the Japanese side is not living up to it.'' The Japanese claim sales of American semiconductors here soared 75 percent in the first quarter of this year over the same period last year. ``I don't know any people who are so greedy that they're not satisfied with a 75 percent increase in one year,'' Makoto Kuroda, ex-vice minister of the Ministry of International Trade and Industry, told journalists this month. MITI chief Hajime Tamura has urged U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter to lift the sanctions before the end of the Reagan admiStates isn't in danger of being dethroned as the world's soybean king, but the royal attire is a bit ragged. And some other countries that produce oilseed crops stand to make a little profit. Based on Aug. 1 indications, the Agriculture Department estimates the 1988 soybean harvest at 1.47 billion bushels, or 23 percent less than last year's production. The yield was put at 26 bushels per acre, compared with 33.7 in 1987. Two years ago, according to USDA economists, soybeans brought farmers an average of $4.78 per bushel. In the 1987-88 marketing year that runs through the end of August, prices are expected to average $6.20 per bushel. Even before the drought was fully developed this summer, it was apparent that the U.S. soybean supply was running low and that demand would boost prices. In June, USDA forecast bean prices in 1988-89 _ the year that will begin on Sept. 1 _ would be in the range of $5.75 to $7.75 per bushel. In July, after the fierce heat and drought spread deep into corn and soybean areas, the USDA upped the price forecast to $6.75 to $9.25 per bushel. The August analysis put the 1988-89 soybean price range at $7.25 to $9.75 per bushel. When the new marketing year begins Sept. 1, the U.S. soybean stockpile is expected to be about 280 million bushels, down from 436 million a year ago. By this time next year, the bean reserve may be 100 million bushels or less, according to the USDA projections. An updated crop report and analysis of the supply-demand situation, along with new price forecasts, will be issued by the department on Sept. 12. Hot, dry weather during the soybean plants' critical flowering stage since Aug. 1 has caused concern that harvest prospects have continued to decline. Meanwhile, the soybean's international importance as an oilseed continues to come under scrutiny by USDA experts. Other sources of vegetable oil and protein meal, such as rapeseed, cottonseed and other crops also are drawing close attention. Overall, based on August indications, the department's Foreign Agricultural Service estimated world oilseed production in 1988-89 at 201.4 million metric tons, down 2 percent from the July forecast and also 2 percent below the 1987-88 output. ``Lower production of soybeans in the United States and China because of drought-reduced yields account for most of the decline,'' the agency reported. ``Partially offsetting the reductions from last month are a projected 500,000-ton increase in Brazilian soybean production, substantial improvement for India's peanut crop and a 403,000-ton rise in U.S. cottonseed output.'' The report added: ``High relative prices for soybeans are expected to stimulate area gains (plantings) in Brazil.'' Brazil is the second-largest soybean producer and is the biggest competitor of U.S. farmers in world markets. The 1988 U.S. harvest of 1.47 billion bushels translates into about 40.1 million metric tons. There are about 36.7 bushels of beans in a ton. Comparatively, Brazil's 1988-89 crop is forecast at 20 million tons, followed by China, 12 million; and Argentina, 11 million. The 12-nation European Economic Community is expected to produce 1.55 million tons of soybeans this season, and Paraguay, 1.2 million. Other countries are expected to produce the remainder. While soybeans are the largest component of the global oilseed production forecast of 201.4 million tons, they still comprise less than half of the total. Other sources include: cottonseed, 33.07 million tons; peanuts, 22 million; sunflowerseed, 21.23 million; rapeseed, 21.49 million; flaxseed, 2 million; copra, 4.73 million; and palm kernel 2.85 million. Because they are in the Southern Hemisphere and thus on a different calendar cycle for growing seasons, Latin American producers are finding the U.S. drought is affecting their plans. ``In an effort to capitalize on higher prices before the U.S. harvest in 1989, Brazil and Argentina are forecast to increase their exports of soybeans,'' the report said. Brazil is expected to export 3.9 million tons of soybeans in 1988-89, up from 2.7 million last season, and Argentina's shipments are forecast at 3.2 million tons, up from 2.4 million in 1987-88. But the higher prices are dampening the demand for soybean imports in some major markets, the report said. The Soviet Union, for example, is expected to reduce bean imports in 1988-89 to 1.5 million tons, down 17 percent from this season. The Soviets are also expected to reduce imports of soybean meal to 2.7 million tons, down 100,000 tons from this year. The major U.S. foreign market for soybeans is the European Economic Community, and the higher prices are expected to reduce shipments to 11.2 million tons in 1988-89, down 1.9 million tons from this year, the report said. However, U.S. sales of soybean meal are forecast to rise slightly from 13 million tons in 1987-88.
AP900806-0183 	X	Eating Well, a national consumer magazine on food and health, offered its first issue in July. ``Our intention,'' says publisher James M. Lawrence, ``is for this to be a magazine that one reads out of fascination and pleasure, not guilt. We think it should appeal to men and women with an uncommon curiosity about and love of good food, inspiring them to try new foods and new recipes, to strive for nutritional wellness without sacrificing the sensual pleasures of cooking and eating well.'' The first issue featured ``Something Fishy at the Seafood Counter,'' a look at the seafood industry. _ Reader's Digest launched the ``American Medical Association Home Medical Library'' this summer as part of a planned 18-volume series concerning health and medicine. Each volume will treat a different topic _ diagnosing disease, the heart, nutrition, drugs and the battle against infection _ and will be sold by direct mail. The first in the series is ``Practical Family Health.'' _ The complexities of filing claims for health care coverage can be bewildering for many, and they may not collect what they're entitled to, says the owner of a service to help patients or their relatives sort out claims paperwork. ``When a claimant is ill, paperwork is the last thing on his mind.'' says Serena Kalker, who started Medical Claims Assistance Co. in Brooklyn, N.Y., when she discovered that many clients of her husband's accounting firm were overwhelmed by the claims process. ``Many claimants just give up. So they pay huge medical bills. Meanwhile, the funds which are intended to reimburse them _ coverage they have paid for and to which they are entitled _ go uncollected.'' She says her service, with fees based on a percentage of recoveries, helps consumers avoid ``unexpected traps'' that can cost them money through lost or unqualified claims. ``We try to make sure that the individual doesn't cheat himself by filing overlapping claims that allow insurors to sidestep their responsibilities,'' she says. _ You're not goofing off. You're resting your eyes when you stare off into space, says the American Optometric Association. And it's a good idea to take a staring break for 10 minutes every hour or two you're occupied with eye-intensive activities such as using a computer, reading, watching television or playing video games. The association also advises using eye safety equipment for sports such as tennis, softball, or baseball or for home projects like cleaning and gardening. Also recommended are maximum protection sunglasses that block 75 to 90 percent of the light, which can help prevent cataracts and damage to the inside lining of the eye. Other eye protection tips include keeping room lighting soft but using lamps for reading, sewing, preparing food and other projects. Task lighting should be no more than three times brighter than the general room light. And cut room lighting in half for computer areas. _ Protect your ears, too. Noise is one of the biggest culprits in premature hearing loss, but you can take some simple measures to minimize it, according to the E-A-R Group of Cabot Corp., which makes soft foam earplugs and other protective devices. Close windows when noisy construction work is going on in your neighborhood. Don't sit too closely to the speakers at amplified concerts. Keep stereos and television volume at a reasonable level. These tips and other information, including warning signs of hearing loss, are in their booklet, ``A Helpful Guide to Ear Protection.'' For a copy, write the company at 5457 West 79th Street, Indianapolis Ind. 46268. _ Many Americans are totally edentulous and a growing number are trying osseointegration. In plain language, that means 42 percent of Americans over 65 are without teeth, and many are opting for oral implant surgery rather than conventional dentures. According to a national survey conducted by the American Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons, the use of oral implants has almost tripled in the past five years and is expected to climb. Difficulties in denture retention and chewing were the most important reasons patients chose implant surgery, the study found. Other reasons included mouth irritation from dentures, inadequate support from existing teeth for bridgework, and difficulty in speaking. Most of the maxillofacial surgeons surveyed said they have performed implant surgery on patients as young as the mid-20s. ``These findings show that missing teeth are not unique to the older population,'' says Dr. Gerald Laboda, the association president. ``In appearance, form and stability, oral implants are the closest thing modern science has to natural teeth. Oral implants bond to the existing bone structure of the mouth, thus eliminating the instability, chewing difficulty and irritation many denture wearers endure.'' _ Barnyard chores, such as feeding chickens and playing with pygmy goats, are being used in therapy programs for head-injured patients. ``Animal therapy offers a unique method ot treatment because it uses a living, responsive stimulus in treating the physically and mentally impaired,'' says Dr. James Wasco, medical director of the New Medico Head Injury System, a nationwide network of rehabilitation facilities. ``Techniques used for the elderly and neglected children are now being expanded for head-injured individuals.'' The barnyard program is used at the organization's Lindale, Texas, facility, while equestrian therapy programs help head-injured patients at facilities in Center Ossipee, N.H., and Canonsburg, Pa. Riding horses and petting and caring for them are both offered in the therapy. ``For both children and adults, caring for an animal increases self-confidence because the individual is responsible for the animal's well-being,'' Wasco notes.
AP900908-0011 	X	The phrasing of a question and answer in a sex knowledge survey released Wednesday by the Kinsey Institute, and reported by The Associated Press, may have been misleading. The true-false question stated, ``There are over-the-counter spermicides people can buy at the drugstore that will kill the AIDS virus.'' The correct answer given was ``True.'' That does not mean the spermicides will cure AIDS, the Kinsey report says. Instead, many health care professionals say using the spermicides along with a condom may help protect against transmission of the AIDS virus during sexual intercourse, the report says. The spermicides include an ingredient called nonoxynol-9 that can kill the AIDS virus in the test tube, the report says. June Reinisch, director of the Kinsey Institute, said, ``It is very likely to work in people.''
AP880921-0039 	X	It's too early to tell how NBC's 179 hours of prime-time Summer Olympics coverage will score in the ratings, but the first three nights started far off the ratings record set by the 1984 games on ABC. Nevertheless, the first three nights of coverage did land in the top 10 in the Nielsens last week, the final week of the broadcast year. Sunday night's Olympics coverage was No. 2 among all prime-time shows, according to the A.C. Nielsen Co., with a rating of 17.7 and a 30 share. Saturday's coverage came in ninth, with a rating of 16.1 and a 31 share. The opening ceremonies Friday ranked 10th, with a 15.2 and 29. The rating is a percentage of the nation's estimated 88.6 million households with televisions. The share is a percentage of sets in use. The 1984 games averaged a 23.5 rating. People meters, the new viewer-measuring devices that have shown overall lower numbers for network shows, combined with a decline in network viewing may contribute to a depression in Olympics ratings this year. The first three nights of the Olympics averaged about a 30 share, somewhat lower than the third of the viewing audience NBC had predicted. NBC analyst Jeff Boehme said it was too early to tell if there's a trend in the Olympics ratings. Monday night's Olympics broadcast continued to score disappointingly in the ratings, though it won the night for NBC. The coverage during prime time rated 18.0 with a 28 share. CBS had a 14.5 for the night, and ABC a 12.9. CBS effectively programmed against the Olympics on Sunday night with a repeat of the Valerie Bertinelli movie ``Rockabye'' that ranked fourth in the Nielsens. CBS also scored with its timely ``48 Hours'' on the approach of Hurricane Gilbert, getting the highest rating yet for the weekly news program. It ranked 12th with a 14.1 rating and 24 share. NBC won the week ending Sept. 18 with an average rating of 14.0. CBS and ABC tied with 11.5 each. The week marked the 52nd since the 1987-88 fall season began, so NBC claimed its fourth broadcast-year win in a row with an average rating of 14.5. Although CBS finished third for the regular season that ended in April, based on yearlong figures, CBS edged ABC for the broadcast year with an average rating of 12.2 to ABC's 12.1. The top 10 shows last week were: ``A Different World'' NBC, ``Summer Olympics _ Sunday'' NBC, ``The Cosby Show'' NBC, ``Rockabye'' CBS, ``Monday Night Football'' ABC, ``60 Minutes'' CBS, ``Barbara Walters'' ABC, ``Murder, She Wrote'' CBS, ``Summer Olympics _ Saturday'' and ``Summer Olympics _ Opening'' NBC. The lowest-rated prime-time shows of the week were: ``Live! Dick Clark Presents,'' ``The Flintstones _ Just Say No,'' ``The `Slap' Maxwell Story,'' ``Cowboy Joe,'' ``California Girls Special,'' ``Lily Tomlin _ Sold Out,'' ``West 57th,'' ``Live from the Hard Rock Cafe,'' ``Space _ Beyond the Shuttle'' and ``Decision '88 Countdown.'' Despite a move to a half-hour earlier in New York, where its ratings dropped, the ``CBS Evening News'' rebounded into first place in the national news ratings after tying with ABC's ``World News Tonight'' the previous week. The news race last week continued to be a virtual dead heat, with less than a point separating the three network newscasts. CBS had a 10.8 rating and 22 share, ABC had 10.3 and 21, and ``NBC Nightly News'' had a rating of 10.1 and a 20 share.
AP900228-0224 	X	When Bertrand Blier develops a screenplay, he writes with specific people in mind. Since the French filmmaker's stories are usually a little crazy, he wants his actors the same way. ``I need an interesting starting point,'' said the director of the certifiably insane ``Too Beautiful for You'' (``Trop Belle Pour Toi''), which won the Jury's Special Prize last summer at Cannes, and ``Get Out Your Handkerchiefs'' (``Preparez Vos Mouchoirs''), winner in 1978 of the Academy Award for best foreign film. ``To have the movie start with something crazy, you need the sort of actors that are crazy enough themselves to make it credible,'' he said. Good actors, the director insists, are a little deranged, like his friend Gerard Depardieu, the star of ``Too Beautiful for You'' and ``Get Out Your Handkerchiefs'' as well as Blier's ``Menage'' and ``Cold Cuts'' (``Buffet Froid''). They met in 1973, when Blier was casting for ``Going Places'' (``Les Valseuses'') and Depardieu was an unknown actor. ``I was a little hesitant to hire him because that was a very important charatcer in the film,'' Blier recalled. ``For six months, every day, Depardieu would come to the office with a different costume on to convince me he could play different characters. One day, he was very funny. The next day he was sad and distraught. It's extraordinary.'' Depardieu got the part and Blier gave him the chance to make good on the promise of his extended audition _ to do anything. In ``Get Out Your Handkerchiefs,'' Depardieu decides his unhappy wife needs a lover and recruits a total stranger for the job _ in the middle of a restaurant. In ``Cold Cuts,'' he plays an unemployed man who accosts a stranger in a subway station and rants about his dreams of murder. In ``Menage,'' he is a thief who again inflicts himself on total strangers and takes over their lives. The films are in the spirit of those screwball comedies of the 1930s, such as ``My Man Godfrey'' and ``The Thin Man.'' Timing is essential, quick enough to make audiences laugh, but not so fast that the story loses believability. And no matter how warped the humor gets, the actors have to play it straight. ``Each film is like a game,'' Blier explained. ``With each new movie you have to set your rules and you have to explain your rules to the public if you want them to be able to play with you.'' He admires American director Billy Wilder, who depended on actors such as Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau to hustle along the story. Blier says Depardieu is ideal for that kind of comedy because he's quicker than other actors. ``The entire movie just goes a lot faster,'' Blier said. ``Even in a love scene, everything goes very fast. The other actors, even the very good ones, they tend to listen to what they're saying, contemplate themselves. He doesn't do that.'' With ``Too Beautiful for You,'' imagine ``She-Devil'' with the husband abandoning Meryl Streep and running off with Roseanne Barr. Depardieu is a respectable upper-class family man who falls in love with his homely secretary (Josiane Balasko) while spurning his beautiful wife (Carole Bouquet). Blier noted that ``Too Beautiful for You'' was harder to shoot than his earlier films because there was less action and more emphasis on affairs of the heart. Deparidieu, reluctantly, had to slow down. ``Depardieu was feeling rather uneasy when they were shooting the movie because he was under the impression that he had nothing to do. He likes to act, he prefers to act. He's always looking at the women and doing nothing. When he wanted to do something, I said, `No, don't move, only look.''' Blier, the son of actor Bernard Blier, was born in 1939 in Paris. Through his father, Blier met French directors Henri-Georges Clouzot and Jacques Becker and soon decided he wanted to make films, too. ``I was 15, 16, and it came to my mind that that was the only profession for me,'' Blier said. ``It's the only profession where you take yourself for God, pretend you're God for a while.'' His first commandment remains ``Thou Shalt Be Insane,'' and no exceptions are allowed. One poor actor was even banished for signs of excessive normal behavior. ``The first scene of `Buffet Froid' was very difficult for me because I shot the scene with another actor, who was not Michel Serrault, and it was a disaster,'' Blier said. ``I called Michel Serrault and he came for two nights to shoot his scene. Only Michel Serrault was crazy enough for the beginning of this film. I can't work with actors who are not like that.''
AP881028-0112 	X	Lawmakers who say they were double-crossed by a presidential veto are promising to revive legislation that would protect federal workers exposing government fraud and waste. Howls of bipartisan outrage were generated Thursday after congressional sponsors learned that President Reagan won't sign the legislation that his Office of Management and Budget agreed in writing to support. This is hardly the first time that a presidential veto has stirred controversy in Congress, but the reaction was harsher this time because Democrats and Republicans accused the administration of breaking its word. Lawmakers said they relied on letters to sponsors by the deputy director of the Office of Management and Budget, Joseph R. Wright Jr., expressing the administration's backing of the legislation. Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., the chief Senate sponsor, said the measure will be introduced again when Congress reconvenes early next year. Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, echoed the statement. Reagan, who said the version passed by Congress went too far in protecting workers, said he will submit his own bill in January before leaving office. But the 418-0 House vote and unanimous voice vote in the Senate for the congressional version make it unlikely that a Reagan alternative would prevail. Attorney General Dick Thornburgh raised constitutional objections to the bill, which was designed to protect federal ``whistleblowers'' from retaliation by their superiors. The attorney general persuaded Reagan on Wednesday to ``pocket veto'' the legislation _ let it die while Congress is out of session. Thornburgh told reporters Thursday that ``no one is entitled to the protection of unconstitutional legislation.'' He contended that the Justice Department consistently expressed constitutional worries to lawmakers and never signed off on the compromise that passed Congress. Asked if Wright had approval to deal with Congress on the legislation, Thornburgh replied, ``I don't know.'' It was unclear whether OMB and Justice Department officials knew they were pulling in opposite directions, but congressional staffers said they assumed Wright checked with other agencies before writing of the administration's support. OMB spokeswoman Barbara Clay declined to discuss an apparent internal rift, saying only, ``The decision has been made by the president and we support the decision.'' Lawmakers didn't buy Thornburgh's explanation that his department expressed its unhappiness with the bill to Congress during ``any number of exchanges.'' ``It's outrageous conduct and has created a bipartisan explosion, because it violates the basic understanding we need but now no longer have ... that an administration's word is good,'' said Levin. ``There's going to be bipartisan hell to pay.'' Rep. Frank Horton of New York, the chief Republican House sponsor, said he backed the measure ``only when I was assured of the administration's support.'' Horton called Reagan's decision ``a reprehensible act ... orchestrated after adjournment of the Congress to prevent an override.'' Grassley said the administration had ``signed off'' on the bill before Thornburgh stepped in. ``We worked with the administration far too closely for Thornburgh and company to now suggest there are unresolved constitutional questions. ... But then this administration hasn't exactly a sterling record where whistleblowers are concerned.'' Chief House sponsor Patricia Schroeder, D-Colo., said, ``In 1981 President Reagan promised to protect employees who blow the whistle on wrongdoing; now we know how cheap the president's words are.'' Reagan said Wednesday the bill would have allowed employees ``who are not genuine whistleblowers'' to manipulate the process to delay or avoid proper discipline. ``I regret that the Congress did not present me with constitutional and effective legislation to expand the protections and procedural rights afforded to federal employees who report fraud, waste and abuse they discover in federal programs,'' the president said in a statement. ``The interests of both employees and managers should be fully protected,'' the president said. Sponsors said the whistleblower bill was needed because the Office of Special Counsel, established to represent the interests of whistleblowers, was not doing its job. The bill was designed to reverse decisions of courts and the Merit Systems Protection Board, a federal judicial agency, that made it difficult for whistleblowers to win their cases. The bill would have made the Office of Special Counsel an independent agency and would have defined its role clearly as one of protecting whistleblowers. The office now is part of the Merit Systems Protection Board and at times it has acted against whistleblowers who came to the office for help.
AP901115-0110 	X	The Senate Ethics Committee today opened politically-charged hearings into links between five senators and the owner of a failed savings and loan and the panel's chairman bluntly told the lawmakers that many people believe ``you sold your office.'' Four of the so-called Keating Five looked on as Sen. Howell Heflin said, ``many of our fellow citizens apparently believe that your services were bought by Charles Keating, that you were bribed, that you sold your office, that you traded your honor and your good names for contributions and other benefits.'' Sens. John McCain, a Republican from Arizona, and Democrats John Glenn of Ohio, Donald W. Riegle Jr. of Michigan and Dennis DeConcini of Arizona each listened intently as Heflin spoke in his gravely Southern accent. Sen. Alan Cranston, D-Calif., who is undergoing prostate cancer treatment, did not attend. All five deny any wrongdoing. Committee counsel Robert Bennett jostled a boxed puzzle before the committee members as he began his opening statement, saying he would provide them with a picture that later pieces of evidence would fill in. Bennett said Cranston, DeConcini and Riegle ``were important players'' in helping Keating in his ``all-out war'' with federal regulators. He said McCain and Glenn played lesser roles. Bennett said he did not contend it was improper for the senators to hold meetings with federal regulators, but that it was up to the panel to decide whether their actions were improper. He said ``there can be no doubt'' that the intent of each of the five senators was to help Keating when they met with federal regulators in 1987. The five senators received a total of $1.3 million in campaign contributions or donations to their favored causes from Keating and his associates. All contacted federal regulators on behalf of Keating at a time when the government was considering whether to seize the Lincoln Savings and Loan Association, an Irvine, Calif.-based thrift institution. The thrift later collapsed at an estimated cost to the taxpayers of $2 billion. Heflin told the five they would have the chance to say whether the donations ``influenced your actions in any way.'' He said lawmakers' activities legitimately include helping their constituents and overseeing government institutions and added that there is room for disagreement about conclusions in the case. Bennett said the evidence will be clear despite the refusal of Keating to answer questions during the Senate inquiry. Keating has been indicted in California on state securities fraud charges and is awaiting trial. ``One could ask the question, `If Mr. Keating were here, would you believe what he had to say anyway?''' Bennett said. The five senators have become a symbol of the massive savings industry collapse, and the outcome of the ethics hearings could intensify the political ramifications of what so far has been a bipartisan scandal. In addition, the case has highlighted a political system that gives lawmakers great latitude in contacting federal regulators on behalf of constituents, at the same time they are dependent on campaign contributions to mount their political campaigns. The hearings stemmed from a complaint last year by the citizens group Common Cause. ``It's not just the five senators but the whole Senate whose integrity and credibility is on the line,'' said Fred Werthheimer, the organization's leader. Heflin and others on the panel said the case should not create a standard that bars members of Congress from intervening with federal agencies on behalf of constituents or campaign contributors. ``A standard of conduct which would preclude members of Congress from intervening on behalf of individuals who happened to have contributed to or raised funds for their campaign is nonsensical and unworkable under existing law,'' said Sen. Warren Rudman, R-N.H. Sen. Trent Lott, R-Miss., another member of the committee, complained that panel has taken too long with the case. ``We should have already taken certain ... actions,'' he said. Heflin, D-Ala., defended the panel's decision to hold the hearings against charges of partisanship. ``On all the votes taken by the committee ... not one was divided along partisan lines,'' he said. With documents stacked several inches high on a table covered with green felt, Heflin framed the issue that the ethics panel will have to grapple with: ``The allegation in this case, that an individual used his wealth to get preferential treatment from government officials in the performance of their official duties, raises questions which are as old as history, and issues that bear on the balance of power among the branches of the federal government. The committee could vote to rebuke any of the five or recommend a more serious punishment to the full Senate. Each senator has denied any connection between Keating's money and their meetings with regulators. The basic issue is whether any violated Senate rules against exerting improper influence in return for compensation. All except Riegle attended an April 2, 1987, meeting with Ed Gray, then the top thrift regulator. All five attended another meeting a week later with San Francisco-based bank examiners who revealed that potential criminal actions by Lincoln were involved. McCain's top aide, Chris Koch, said McCain would make the case that he ended his friendship with Keating on March 24, 1987, when Keating asked the senator to negotiate with regulators on his behalf. ``There's no smoking gun on Don Riegle,'' the Michigan senator's lawyer, Thomas Green, said before the hearing. He contended that Riegle's meeting with regulators was unrelated to a fund-raising effort Keating directed for Riegle. DeConcini wrote a letter to about 5,000 supporters this week denying wrongdoing. ``You may hear derogatory statements about me and my office, but I can assure you that I have not betrayed my public trust, nor do I intend to be intimidated from assisting constituents in their dealings with our government,'' DeConcini said. Glenn has said in the past that he had no discussions on behalf of Lincoln after the 1987 meeting when regulators said criminal charges were possible. Cranston's spokesman, Murray Flander, said Cranston contends, ``I pocketed no money, I broke no law, I violated no Senate rule. Those are undisputed facts.''
AP881011-0008 	X	Police said they believe arsonists were responsible for a fire that damaged a door at the consular and cultural section of the Algerian Embassy in London. Scotland Yard said in a statement that the fire extensively damaged the door at the building at Hyde Park Gate in the center of London. The consular and cultural section is about a mile from the main embassy building at Holland Park. The brief Scotland Yard statement gave no indication whether the blaze Monday night was linked with the current wave of violence in Algeria over austerity measures. Embassy staff could not be contacted as the building was closed for the night. The Scotland Yard statement gave no indication how the fire was started. In Algeria on Monday, soldiers with machine guns fired into a crowd of more than 10,000 in the Bab-el-Oued district of the capital Algiers and eyewitnesses said they killed at least 25 people and injured dozens more. Algerian President Chadli Bendjedid in a nationwide address Monday night promised reforms to end the week-long revolt over economic policies. He defended his declared state of emergency and said he would ``not allow the country to fall into anarchy.'' Bendjedid has been the main advocate of an economic austerity program aimed at forcing Algeria to live within its means in the face of falling oil and gas prices.
AP880303-0027 	X	People in other countries have invested $1.5 trillion in the United States and withdrawals could bring a recession, a former top Treasury official says. C. Fred Bergsten, who now heads the Institute for International Economics, a study group financed largely by the West German Marshall Fund, issued the warning on Wednesday. Bergsten said the investment by other countries in the United States is in private hands. ``Some of it's in the form of plant and equipment _ that's not going to come out rapidly,'' he told the House Budget Committee. ``But close to a trillion dollars of it is liquid, and about half a trillion has come in just the last five years to finance our massive trade deficits. ``On future occasions, if foreigners withdrew money, the effect on interest rates, our economy, the exchange rate, could be much more dramatic.'' It has happened before, he said. ``The last time the dollar fell sharply _ I happen to remember painfully because I was in the Treasury at the time _ was in the late 1970s,'' he added. He was then assistant secretary of the Treasury for international affairs. He recalled that the United States had to borrow about twice the amount of its trade deficit because foreigners were withdrawing money at the same time. ``If we got anything like that magnitude now, we'd have to find a way to borrow $300 billion from foreign officials or somewhere to keep our books in balance,'' he said. ``That could only be done at prices that would bring the whole economy to a shuddering halt.'' He said the most enduring legacy of the Reagan administration would be the conversion of the United States from the world's biggest creditor country to the biggest debtor. Current foreign borrowing by the U.S. government is about $150 billion a year. ``At the end of 1987, our net international debt stood at about $400 billion, more than the external red ink of the next three largest debtors _ Canada, Brazil and Mexico _ combined,'' he said. ``Under the most optimistic adjustment scenario, that number will rise to $750 billion before it could possibly level off, and a more likely outcome is much closer to $1 trillion.'' Bergsten said the United States needs to shift its annual international trade balance by about $200 billion, more than the current deficit, because the additional cost of interest on the foreign debt will be close to $50 billion by the early 1990s. It would be reasonable to try to reach this target in four or five years, he said. He said it can be done only by cutting the federal budget deficit by $150 to $200 billion in the same period. He added that unless these cuts can be made, the value of the dollar against other currencies could easily fall by another 20 percent or 30 percent.
AP900622-0105 	X	The army is sending an anti-terrorism unit to Medellin, center of Colombia's drug trade, to halt assassinations of police by drug lords, the defense minister said in statements published Friday. Police said four more policemen were murdered Thursday on the streets of Medellin, Colombia's second-largest city. Their deaths bring to 123 the number of Medellin law officers murdered this year. Also Thursday, police said they arrested a drug trafficking suspect in Bogota wanted for trial in the United States. Julion Enrique Rojas, 49, has been accused by a Florida court of cocaine distribution and illegal possession of arms, judicial police spokeswoman Omayra Patino said by telephone. Defense Minister Oscar Botero said in a statement the army is sending its Mobile Brigade to Medellin to reinforce the city's 4,000-member police force. In less than six months, authorities have been forced to send an additional 1,300 troops to the city in the face of an unprecedented campaign of bombings and assassinations by the powerful Medellin cocaine cartel. Last week the army dispatched 350 more soldiers to Medellin from the elite Rifle Battalion. In a statement sent to the Medellin daily newspaper El Colombiano, Botero admitted that so far efforts to halt the violence have been insufficient. ``Social solidarity and national unity are what is needed to regain peace and harmony among Colombians,'' Botero wrote to the publisher of El Colombiano, which has harshly criticized the government's attempts to bring law and order to Medellin. Police Thursday began a new anti-drug crackdown in the city, stepping up detentions, searches and street patrols. In a 24-hour period, security forces arrested at least 86 people suspected of involvement in assassinations of policemen, the radio networks RCN and Caracol reported Friday, citing police sources. A judicial police report said the Medellin cartel is offering $4,300 to anyone who kills a policeman. Botero said that aside from troop reinforcements, authorities are installing a new helicopter base in Medellin to be used in the fight against the drug-related violence. The drug war began in August 1989 after drug lords assassinated a presidential candidate. Since then, the government has extradited 14 drug suspects to the United States, killed Medellin cartel leader Gonzalo Rodriguez Gacha, and confiscated hundreds of properties belonging to the cocaine magnates. They have responded with a bombing and terror campaign.
AP881121-0135 	X	The emerging Bush administration includes prominent holdovers from the Reagan years, but with one clear and important difference: The new team is tilted far more toward pragmatists than ideologues. Bush filled three more key positions Monday and his choices were sure to set off cries of anguish from the right. Dick Thornburgh will remain attorney general and Lauro Cavazos will stay on as education secretary. Both men were late-comers to the Reagan administration and both replaced leading ideologues, Edwin Meese III and William Bennett. The third Bush choice was Richard Darman to serve as director of the Office of Management and Budget. ``He's put together an Eastern establishment Republican administration,'' said conservative activist Richard Viguerie. ``That's discouraging.'' High-profile jobs in the next administration are rapidly being filled, and only one Bush choice has drawn applause from conservatives _ Gov. John Sununu of New Hampshire who will serve as White House chief of staff. The voting machines had hardly stopped humming with Bush's 40-state Election Day victory when the president-elect made the most obvious choice for his new administration _ friend, adviser and campaign chairman James A. Baker III to succeed George Shultz as secretary of state. During his tenure as White House chief of staff Baker earned a reputation as a quintessential pragmatist, a savvy insider who repeatedly gave low priority to the initiatives of the more ideological elements in the Reagan administration. Calls on Reagan to fire Baker were always sure applause lines at conservative gatherings. Baker's deputy was Darman. Quick to follow the Baker selection was that of another old Bush friend and adviser, Nicholas Brady. He will remain treasury secretary. In fact, another characteristic of the Bush appointees is how many have long-standing ties to the president-elect. When Ronald Reagan was filling out his administration eight years ago, he was meeting many of the top officials for the first time. The same was true of Democrat Jimmy Carter in 1976. Not so with Bush. His relationships with the people he has appointed goes back many years. That should not be surprising, considering the years Bush has served in governmental and party posts. The long resume he touted during the presidential campaign put him in close contact with other up-and-coming Republicans. No one ever described Bush as an ideologue and, clearly, the people he feels most comfortable with are as pragmatic as he. It's always tough to get the jump on a new president and name his Cabinet for him. But so far there have been no big surprises, no choices from other than the names subject to the most speculation. The names being mentioned for the remaining national security jobs are former Texas Sen. John Tower for Defense and Brent Scowcroft for national security adviser or CIA director. Scowcroft was national security adviser to President Ford and is an establishment figure. One conservative favorite whose name is frequently mentioned for a Cabinet post is former New York Rep. Jack Kemp. But Kemp is most often mentioned as either Labor or Housing secretary, the two areas where he is least-stringently ideological. The former Buffalo congressman has always enjoyed good relations with traditionally Democratic unions and his major urban initiative is a proposal for enterprise zones to encourage businesses to locate in neighborhoods with high unemployment. Neither post would make Kemp a major player in areas where his more ideological views on monetary and tax policy would have influence. Bush may yet come up with some appointees who will please hard-line conservatives, but there is no sign of a Bennett, a James Watt or a Donald Hodel waiting in the wings.
AP901117-0048 	X	NATO's top military commander in Europe says he welcomes the new conventional arms accord, but that he's concerned some Soviet weaponry already removed from Eastern Europe won't be destroyed under the treaty. The treaty does not take effect until its signing, scheduled for Monday in Paris. Moscow has said it has already moved 20,000 tanks, 24,000 artillery pieces and 800 aircraft to east of the Ural Mountains, out of the treaty area between those mountains and the Atlantic. ``They are a concern to me,'' U.S. General John Galvin said Friday. ``They are not in an offensive deployment (but that does) not take away my worries,'' Galvin, NATO's top commander in Europe, told reporters. But he and other NATO officials welcomed the Conventional Forces in Europe accord, finalized by negotiators from the 16 NATO and six Warsaw Pact nations on Thursday, as a political and military milestone. One official said Moscow ``is aware of our concerns'' that arms, subject to be removed under the CFE treaty, do not remain operational east of the Urals. ``We have been given assurances'' this will not happen, said the official, who asked not to be named. He said North Atlantic Treaty Organization will remain ``vigilant'' and monitor the situation. NATO officials say the Soviet arms already transferred to east of the Ural Mountains are in unprotected storage and bound to deteriorate. The CFE treaty is to be signed Monday by the leaders of the NATO and Warsaw Pact nations in Paris in the margin of a 34-nation East-West summit. Only days later, the NATO and Warsaw Pact states will open talks on a follow-up accord on troop levels across Europe. The CFE treaty will bring about, over three years, a 40 percent cut in battle tanks, armored cars, artillery, combat planes and assault helicopters. In all, 100,000 such items are to go - 90,000 on the Warsaw Pact side, mostly the Soviet Union, and 10,000 on NATO's - leaving 250,000 such arms systems in place overall. The CFE treaty provides for verification of efforts to destroy weapons to ensure each alliance will end up with no more than 20,000 tanks, 30,000 armored cars, 20,000 artillery pieces, 6,800 combat aircraft and 2,000 attack helicopters within the treaty area.
AP900806-0206 	X	The stock market remained broadly lower this afternoon in heavy selling sparked by the Middle East turmoil and resulting oil price surge. Severe setbacks in foreign financial centers had set the stage for a panicky day on Wall Street. The Dow Jones average of 30 blue chips was off 79.20 points at 2,730.45 by 3 p.m. on Wall Street, an improvement from the morning's 100-plus-point loss. Declining issues held a huge lead over advances on the New York Stock Exchange, with 1,514 down, 239 up and 247 unchanged. Trading activity slowed slightly from Friday's unusually brisk pace. But volume on the floor of the Big Board still came to a heavy 207.13 million shares with two hours left to go. The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks fell 5.13 to 183.69. Meanwhile, at the American Stock Exchange the market value index lost 6.06 to 340.57. NYSE spokesman Richard Torrenzano told reporters the nation's biggest stock market was weathering the session with no problems. ``Circuit breakers'' designed to cushion market declines were tripped by early activity in stocks and stock index futures. He said the mechanisms were working without a hitch and appeared to have steadied the volatile market. In Washington, a Securities and Exchange Commission spokesman had no comment while a spokeman at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission said the agency was monitoring the situation. U.S. stocks, already battered by concerns about U.S. economic health, have been hurt by speculation that sharply higher oil prices could trigger a recession accompanied by rising inflation. A few stocks, particularly oil and related issues, benefited from the situation. But a plea from the White House for oil companies to resist hiking prices tempered the rally. Exxon added &rsqb; to 53{, Texaco rose } to 65&rsqb;, Chevron gained | to 79&rsqb;, Mobil moved up 1 to 67~ and Amoco added { to 58. The most Big Board issue was Philip Morris, which lost 1~ to 44| as more than 3.2 million shares changed hands. Among other heavily traded blue chips, International Business Machines slid 2~ to 104, American Telephone & Telegraph skidded 1{ to 34{, American Express pulled back 1| to 26&lsqb; and General Electric lost 3{ to 66\. UAL plunged 10 to 112{ after a published report indicated a proposed employee-led buyout has run into possible new difficulty. Market watchers had expected stocks to encounter rough going. Worries about the economic impact of the Persian Gulf crisis and resulting oil price spiral had caused investors to bail out of stocks in a big way earlier in Tokyo, London and elsewhere. But market analysts expected stocks to stabilize at the current lower levels.
AP900718-0108 	X	An era in which even the size of a kitchen knife was once decided by foreign military powers is coming to an end in Berlin, the last occupied city of World War II. The Soviet Union's agreement to gradually remove its troops from East Germany and allow a united Germany to join NATO effectively eliminates the last major barriers to unification. It also marks the virtual end of the control the four World War II Allies _ the United States, Britain, France and the Soviet Union _ have exerted over Germany since they conquered and divided it four decades ago. Nowhere is the influence of the war more evident than in Berlin, which could become the capital of a unified Germany but still is technically under military occupation. The Four Powers have said they will relinquish their rights to Berlin immediately upon unification, which is expected in early December. While West Germany was shaped into a democracy and East Germany became a model of Soviet-style communism, the capital of the old German empire was given special status under the Four Powers Agreement after the war. Britain, France and the United States remain the supreme authority in West Berlin and can, if necessary, control the telephone and mail services and police department. West Berlin is governed by a senate that must clear matters concerning security, foreign affairs and police questions with the Allies. In practice, the Allies have permitted city authorities to govern virtually on their own for many years. Hundreds of West Berlin ordinances enacted by the Allies after World War II are still on the books, but most of these laws are not enforced. An Allied committee, advised by the city, has been meeting for the past six years to throw out many of the outmoded laws. Last year, it repealed the Allied-ordered death penalty that had been on the books in West Berlin. West Germany has never had capital punishment. In the mid-1980s, the committee repealed a law that forbid West Berliners from owning kitchen knives longer than 12 inches _ another relic from the postwar years when household knives were regarded as potential weapons. As an enclave city 110 miles inside East German territory, West Berlin is linked to the West by air corridors and autobahns. The Four Powers still control the airways to Berlin, and only their airlines can fly to the city. Even the West German airline, Lufthansa, cannot land in Berlin. But this will change once the city becomes part of a unified Germany. West Berliners are exempt from serving in the West German armed forces, and young men will likely become eligible for the draft once the city passes into the German government sphere. This would effectively end West Berlin's popularity as a haven for draft dodgers from West Germany. The Allies' postwar rights can still occasionally rankle. The Berliner Morgenpost newspaper reported Tuesday that the Allies had rejected a local government proposal to require visas for East Europeans who now can travel freely to West Berlin. But Biddy Brett Rooks, spokeswoman for the British military government, called the report ``absolutely false'' and said the Allies had made no decision on the visa requirement. Ansgar Voessing, a spokesman for the Christian Democrat delegation in the city senate, said East bloc residents need a visa to go to West Germany, but none to travel to West Berlin. He cited that as an example of how the Four Powers Agreement has led to a ``clear inequality'' in laws. East Berlin was named the capital of Communist East Germany, an action never recognized by the Western allies. In East Berlin, the Soviet Union exercised little direct administrative control over the city because of the iron-fisted rule of its surrogate, East Germany's Communist government, and the presence of 380,000 Soviet troops in East Germany. ``The mayor had no power whatsoever. His sole function was to follow party directives,'' said Klaus Haetzel, spokesman for the East Berlin city council. The West German democratic constitution is as much a product of the Allies as the status of Berlin. Its system of 11 states, the nation's laws against extremism, were all drafted by the victors. In the long term, the only vestige of the war after German unification would be the Allied troops and their nuclear arsenals stationed in the country under the NATO alliance. Now that the Soviets have agreed to end their military presence on German territory in three or four years, the Western allies may be asked to withdraw some of their troops and weapons from West Germany. Demands for the removal of NATO nuclear weapons in West Germany could be the next step, according to Klaus Becher, a foreign policy analyst in Bonn. ``The West German populace favors the removal of nuclear weapons, at least offensive weapons,'' Becher said. ``Almost all political forces in Germany are especially sensitive to this.''
AP880530-0094 	X	A protest within sight of the Kremlin on Monday produced passionate debate on Mikhail S. Gorbachev's reforms by bystanders and several dozen Jews seeking to emigrate. In a gathering that police had difficulty controlling, at least 100 people stopped along Kalinin Prospekt, a major avenue leading to the Kremlin, to watch the refusenik protest and to argue their views about Gorbachev's effort to rebuild Soviet society. Despite constant appeals by police using bullhorns to stop blocking the walkway next to the Lenin Library, the refuseniks and onlookers argued in small groups under a hot late afternoon sun. Dozens of others pressed around to hear, oblivious to the police. There was no violence, and the demonstrators, who were among those not invited to a meeting with President Reagan at the U.S. ambassador's residence, left after about an hour. ``This is a country that it's impossible to leave, like a prison,'' said 50-year-old Moscow resident Aaron Greenberg, responding to an elderly man who said the United States observed human rights no better than the Soviet Union. Greenberg said he has been waiting five years for permission to emigrate, but that officials claim he had access to state secrets in a postal job he held 25 years ago. Another bystander who identified himself as Georgy Gusev held up a piece of white paper on which he had drawn a Star of David and a swastika. ``Zionism is fascism,'' he said, citing Israeli occupation of Arab territory. But pressed by angry refuseniks, he said he thought that anyone who wanted to leave the Soviet Union should be free to do so. Other bystanders shouted that the protest was hurting Gorbachev during his meetings with Reagan. One woman who stopped by blamed the refuseniks' problems on bureaucrats whom Gorbachev has been unable to clean out of the Soviet system. ``The bureaucrats all stay in place, and while they are in place on top there won't be perestroika below,'' said Zoya Urisheva. ``If everything was in order, we wouldn't have a refusal problem.'' Vladimir Meshkov, a Moscow Jew who said he has been refused permission to leave for seven years, shouted ``Let us go to Israel'' a half-dozen times as the demonstration ended and police began escorting the last of the protesters to a nearby train entrance. Meshkov, his wife Lida and three and his family held signs during the protest claiming, ``Refusal is a form of murder.'' He said he had been beaten severely twice this year during demonstrations. ``They are really trying to kill us,'' he said. Yuri Semyonovsky, who said he has been refused permission to emigrate for two years, said said of the meetings between Reagan and Gorbachev, ``we expect there will be progress but we don't know how deep it will be.'' One of the protesters added, ``I expect maybe Mr. Reagan will challenge Mr. Gorbachev's idea of democracy, as a leader of a really democratic country.'' Others held banners calling for a ``World without missiles or refusals,'' asking the United States for asylum, and proclaiming themselves prisoners of the KGB secret police and the Soviet visa office. Avi Weiss, head of the Student Struggle for Soviet Jewry and the National Center for Russian Jewry of New York, stopped to talk to the protesters after he and five others conducted a protest for 18 minutes on Red Square earlier in the afternoon. He said the group ``insisted Gorbachev free all our people,'' and demanded that the United States make trade with the Soviet Union depended on the Soviet human rights policy. The demonstration broke up without incident, he said.
AP901120-0041 	X	Scientists say they see exciting potential for the world's first high-temperature superconducting transistor in the development more advanced supercomputers, microwave components and other electronics. The new transistor was developed at the University of Wisconsin and Sandia National Laboratories in Albuquerque, N.M., and operates at a relatively high temperature of minus 340 degrees Fahrenheit, the scientists said Monday. While superconductive compounds that function at similarly high temperatures have been known for years, the transistor marks the first successful attempt to use such materials to create a transistor. The Department of Energy also backed the project, which now has advanced to the installation of the transistor into a functioning electronic circuit. Transistors, often the size of pinheads, function in supercomputers and other electronic devices as the switches that control current. They also are used to amplify signals from devices ranging from stereos to satellites. Superconductivity, the loss of all resistance to electrical current, occurs in dozens of materials when they are chilled to minus 452 degrees Fahrenheit, or close to absolute zero. Devices that become superconductive at higher, more easily achievable temperatures would allow more practical applications and could open the way to faster supercomputers, microwave components and other electronics products. The new transistor is etched in a thin film of thalium and superconducting copper oxide and is chilled to the temperature of liquid nitrogen. While you still ``can't keep it in your shirt pocket,'' it gives scientists more flexibility because it operates at a higher temperature, said electrical engineering Professor James B. Beyer, who directed the project along with Professor James E. Nordman and university graduate Jon Martens. The new transistor intrigues scientists partly because it functions far differently from conventional transistors. Conventional transistors use alteration in the voltage to control current. The new transistor uses changes in the current to control voltage. Ken Frazier, a Sandia spokeesman, said the new transistor may serve as a bridge between circuitry that functions at room temperature and circuitry being developed using superconductivity close to absolute zero. But Nordman cautioned that scientists are still studying the new transistor and are far fro determining its applications. ``The transistor was invented in 1948, and we've been learning about it ever since,'' he said.
AP881022-0144 	X	President Corazon Aquino praised U.S. officials Saturday for indicting Ferdinand Marcos on racketeering charges and said that could deter dictators from robbing the people and seeking asylum abroad. Mrs. Aquino also said that former President Marcos' trial in the United States would hasten recovery of his `hidden wealth'' _ billions of dollars her administration claims Marcos obtained during his 20-year rule. Marcos and his wife Imelda, who have lived in Hawaii since he was ousted in February 1986, were indicted in New York Friday on charges that could send them to jail for 20 years if found guilty. They were charged along with eight associates. The United States alleges that Marcos and his wife embezzled at least $103 million in government funds including U.S. aid and funneled the money to secret bank accounts in Switzerland, the United States and other countries. The couple then allegedly used the money to buy valuable New York properties, the indictment says. ``This (indictment) is certainly welcome news in the Philippines and I commend this evident commitment to the rule of law abroad,'' Mrs. Aquino said in a statement read by her press secretary, Teodoro Benigno. ``I hope that this and other similar efforts undertaken in other countries to investigate the crimes of the Marcoses will lead to the early recovery of the stolen assets that rightfully belong to the Filipino people,'' the statement added. ``Significantly, also, the fact that the Marcoses are being brought to justice will serve as a powerful deterrent to all those who believe themselves above the law and those who would abuse the public trust for private gain.'' Mrs. Aquino's government has accused the Marcoses of stealing up to $10 billion in public and private assets during his rule and hiding the wealth in real estate, shares of stock, works of art, jewelry and bank accounts around the world. News reports on the indictment came too late for Manila's newspapers Saturday but most bannered reports from the previous day that the Marcoses were about to be criminally charged. Political commentator Belinda Aquino _ no relation to the president _ said in a front-page article in the Philippine Daily Inquirer it was ironic that Marcos was being prosecuted for violating U.S. laws and not for crimes committed in the Philippines. ``But what does it matter?'' she said. ``The important thing is that the law has caught up with this rascal at last.'' Officials said Marcos' trial in the United States would delay his prosecution here even further, but noted the U.S. trial could result in the recovery of some of the ``ill-gotten wealth.'' Although it has repeatedly said it will file criminal charges against Marcos, the Aquino government has not done so for fear Marcos would insist on returning to defend himself. The constitution forbids trial in absentia.
AP880927-0210 	X	Four advocates for homeless rights were arrested Tuesday night when they refused to leave the Capitol Hill office of Rep. Joseph Kennedy. The two men and two women, charged with unlawful entry, were among eight Boston homeless-rights advocates who staged an all-day sit-in at the Massachusetts Democrat's office in an attempt to force the congressman to endorse a $20 billion housing bill. The bill, sponsored by Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., would provide 7.5 million units of affordable housing. It rivals Kennedy's proposed Community Housing Partnership Act, which would allocate $500 million in federal matching funds to non-profit affordable housing projects. After meeting with Kennedy in his office, eight demonstrators said they would stay put until the congressman pledged to support Frank's bill. The group had been protesting inside Kennedy's office since 11 a.m. and four refused to leave when asked by the congressman's staff, said Capitol police officer Dan Nichols. Nichols said they are scheduled to be arraigned in D.C. Superior Court on Wednesday. They face a possible $500 fine and@or up to six months in prison. Jim Stewart, an organizer for the protesters, had said earlier the group of constituents, four of whom are homeless, traveled to the Capitol in hopes of ``putting momentum behind the Frank bill'' by lobbying members of the Massachusetts congressional delegation. ``The least we can do is risk arrest here until we convince Joe it's the right thing to do,'' he said, adding that Kennedy's housing bill is ``inadequate to the need'' of the homeless. Aides to Kennedy, who is a member of the housing and community development subcommittee, said the congressman has reservations about the Frank bill because it is too expensive and does not clearly spell out how the money is to be used. ``Joe just feels there's a better bill out there,'' said Chuck McDermott, a Kennedy aide, adding that Kennedy also supports other measures that would provide for construction and rehabilitation of public housing.
AP881107-0033 	X	The Nikkei Stock Average closed at 27,866.36 points, down 180.39 points, on the Tokyo Stock Exchange Monday.
AP900211-0088 	X	Arab Banking Corp., Bahrain's largest offshore bank, said it was setting aside its entire 1989 profit of $132 million to cover potential loan losses. ABC, which is owned by the governments of Kuwait, Libya and Abu Dhabi, said Sunday the addition to its loan-loss reserve was needed to reassure investors because the bank is planning a $250-million share offering to boost its capital by 25 percent. Troubles with the bank's Latin American loan portfolio helped cause interest income to fall 14 percent to $327 million in 1989 from $380 million in 1988. The drop largely reflected non-payment of interest by Brazil and Argentina, said Abdullah Saudi, the bank's president and chief executive. The drop in interest income was offset in part by an increase in fees and commissions, which rose 30 percent to $179 million last year from $138 million in 1988. Operating profit before taxes, minority items and loan loss provisions fell to $184 million in 1989 from $239 million. Saudi said the addition to reserves would boost the bank's provisions for doubtful loans to about 40 percent of its loan portfolio. Saudi said the $250-million share issue planned for the first half of this year will be listed in the Bahrain, Kuwait and Luxembourg stock exchanges. Funds raised through the share issue will go in part toward the setting up of a new ABC European subsidiary, Saudi said. The new company, provisionally named ABC Europe, will take care of ABC branches in Paris, Milan and London. It is likely to be based in London. Saudi said he hoped the bank also would expand in the Arab world.
AP881103-0262 	X	Thanksgiving is still a couple of weeks off, but now is the time to start planning the meal, especially if turkey will be on the menu. The giant bird finds its way onto American tables most often during the holiday season and many cooks deal with these fowls only rarely. That prompts the U.S. Department of Agriculture to issue annual reminders about safe preparation and handling of turkey. Frozen turkeys can be bought now and stored in the freezer until a few days before needed, then placed in the refrigerator to thaw. If you don't want them taking up all that space, order a fresh turkey ahead of time and pick it up the day before Thanksgiving. Many stores are offering fresh, pre-stuffed turkeys. These may be time savers, but the Agriculture Department doesn't recommend them. The stuffing can create incubator-like conditions for the growth of bacteria, and it is nearly impossible for most refrigerators to keep the stuffing deep inside at 40 degrees Fahreiheit or below. The ultimate shortcut is a pre-cooked turkey, but these must also be handled carefully. They are best is served immediately, both from a safety and flavor standpoint. If a pre-cooked turkey must be stored, remove the stuffing, separate the meat from the carcass, and store these items in small packages in the refrigerator. One safe way to save cooking time is to use roasting bags, the department says, since they speed up the process. Cooking the turkey unstuffed also saves time. Microwaves can cook turkeys quickly, but the department warns cooks not to try to microwave a stuffed turkey; a stuffed bird is too dense for microwaving to assure thorough cooking. Often folks wind up with a frozen turkey bought too late to let it sit and defrost in the refrigerator for several days. The department suggests, as an alternative method, immersing the bird in cold water which is changed every half-hour or so. Make sure the bird's wrapping is secure or put it in a plastic bag before placing it in the water. A microwave oven can also be used to thaw an unstuffed turkey, if the oven is large enough. Follow the manufacturer's instructions. Never defrost a turkey on the counter or table top. In the hours it takes for it to thaw bacteria could muiltiply to dangerous levels. And remember when preparing food, use pleney of soap and hot water to wash hands, utensils and cutting boards to prevent the spread of bacteria. Wash the sink, counter, faucet handles, anything that comes in direct or indirect contact with raw turkey. Some recipes in recent years have suggested long, slow cooking for turkeys, but food safety experts frown on this because the bird may not get hot enough to kill bacteria. Cook it at 325 degrees Fahreiheit, they say. The food experts also discourage the idea of partly cooking a bird one day and finishing it the next, for the same reason. Once you've gotten over all these hurdles, cooked the bird, fed the family and cleaned up, the department has suggestions for safe storage of leftovers too. Here's the drill: Remove the stuffing from the bird and the meat from the carcass. Store them in meal-size portions in shallow containers. Leftover turkey will keep in the refrigerator for three or four days. Stuffing and gravey should be used in a day or two. Bring leftover gravey to a rolling boil before serving.
AP880812-0170 	X	Interest rates on new one-year, adjustable-rate mortgages surged to the highest level in nine months this week while fixed-rate mortgages jumped almost to the high point for the year, according to a nationwide survey released Friday. The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp., a government-chartered company owned by savings institutions and known as Freddie Mac, said the one-year, adjustable-rate mortgages this week averaged 8.00 percent, up from 7.90 percent the week before. It was the highest since rates averaged 8.11 percent the week ending Nov. 6. Thirty-year, fixed-rate mortgages jumped to 10.57 percent from 10.44 percent the previous week. That was just slightly below the high for the year so far _ 10.58 percent _ the average for the weeks ending May 27 and June 3. The jump in rates this week followed a move Tuesday by the Federal Reserve Board to push up interest rates to slow the economy and fight inflation. Economists predict a wide range of interest rates, including mortgage rates, will increase further this year. Fixed-rate mortgages hit a peak just before the October stock market crash of 11.58 percent. As the Fed pumped money into the economy to avoid a recession, the average dropped to 9.84 percent in early February. The increase since then means homebuyers taking out $100,000 mortgages now face about $670 more in annual costs than they would have on a fixed-rate mortgage taken out six months ago. Thomas M. Holloway, senior economist for the Mortgage Bankers Association of America, said fixed-rate mortgages likely will rise another three-quarters of a percentage point by the end of the year. ``I think it's going to slow down the housing sector, but I don't think this is the death of the industry,'' he said. Fixed-rate mortgages have fluctuated widely over the past several years, depending on financial market assessment of inflation dangers. But the one-year rate has stayed relatively low, serving as an alternative for home buyers when fixed rates jump. However, adjustable rates now are also moving higher, reflecting Federal Reserve tightening, which has a more immediate effect on short-term rates than on long-term rates. In a separate report, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, which regulates federally insured savings institutions, said fixed-rate mortgages declined slightly from 10.78 percent in early June to 10.73 percent in early July. The dip followed three consecutive monthly increases. Unlike Freddie Mac averages, the bank board numbers include add-on fees known as ``points.'' Also, the bank board averages do no reflect changes over the past month. The bank board said rates, including points, for the most popular type of one-year, adjustable-rate mortgages _ those with caps on how high the rates can increase _ rose for the third month in a row from 8.80 percent in early June to 8.86 percent in early July.
AP901211-0138 	X	A U.S.-chartered Iraqi Airways jetliner ferrying seven Americans and other former hostages to freedom arrived in Frankfurt late Tuesday from Baghdad. On board the Boeing 707, along with the Americans, were two Canadians, two Britons, an Irishman, an Italian, and an Australian, said Craig Springer, U.S. Consulate spokesman in Frankfurt. Before departure, diplomats said six Britons were on board and did not mention an Australian or Italian. There was no immediate explanation for the discrepancy. U.S. officials had originally planned to charter a Boeing 747 jumbo jet to Frankfurt and it was to have two State Department doctors aboard to deal with people coming out of hiding in Kuwait who have experienced a lot of stress. Just one of the doctors was on the flight, said Springer. Springer said the former hostages would stay in a hotel outside Frankfurt overnight and fly to their final destinations the following day on regular commercial flights. The Boeing 707 was one of three chartered jetliners delivering former hostages out of Iraq on Tuesday. Two others left for Bangkok and London. Diplomats said 14 Americans were on the charter flights from Baghdad. Seven were among the 310 people, most of them Britons, on the flight that left for London. Seven more were on the flight to Frankfurt. A Japanese-chartered Iraqi Airways 707 left Baghdad for Bangkok with 159 people aboard, including 14 Japanese diplomats from Kuwait and the rest mostly former Japanese hostages. The White House said Tuesday that a scheduled Thursday evacuation flight of Americans is ``likely to be the last'' and will probably also carry home the remaining staff of the U.S. Embassy in Kuwait. Iraqi President Saddam Hussein last week announced the blanket release of all Westerners, and the first specially chartered freedom flights began Sunday. Earlier Tuesday, diplomats said about 600 U.S. citizens remain in Iraq and Kuwait. They also said about 400 were expected to remain in Iraq, mostly people with dual U.S.-Iraqi citizenship or American spouses of Iraqi citizens.
AP900402-0139 	X	A man who donated one of his kidneys to save his mother's life seven years ago died hours before she could repay him with a bone marrow transplant to help him overcome leukemia, authorities said Monday. ``I'm really heartbroken,'' Ernestine Mitchell said. ``If only he could have lasted eight more hours.'' Her 37-year-old son, Hilliary, had been unable to work as a truck driver since contracting leukemia, and was to receive the bone marrow transplant during a day-long operation beginning at 7:30 a.m. He died of an infection shortly before midnight Sunday, said John Easton, spokesman for the University of Chicago Hospitals. Mitchell died from ``an overwhelming infection related to the leukemia and the loss of his immune system,'' Easton said. ``High doses of chemotherapy needed to combat the disease and prepare the patient for the transplant can leave the patient without a functioning immune system.'' Mrs. Mitchell said she and other family members were at her son's bedside Sunday and had expected him to hang on for the potentially life-saving procedure. ``It's a hurting thing, but I have to remain strong because he was strong at the end,'' Mrs. Mitchell said. ``He talked to us and was kissing us all and we thought he was getting better. We were waiting for 7:30 to come.'' Mrs. Mitchell said she was convinced her bone marrow would have helped. ``I carried him for nine months, his body was a part of my body. Then he gave me his kidney,'' she said. ``I know that if he had gotten the marrow everything would have been OK. Being a mother, I think it would have.'' Mitchell himself knew that his odds were not good because his disease was already at an advanced stage and he had been hospitalized before because of other infections, Easton said. Leukemia is a form of cancer in which abnormal cells can spread in the bone marrow, preventing it from making normal blood cells. This leaves the patient highly susceptible to serious infections, anemia and bleeding. A transplant replaces the patient's defective marrow with healthy marrow. Easton said the mother's bone marrow removal operation had been scheduled for this morning, with the transplant to be done in the afternoon. The operation was filled with risks, and the odds of Mitchell's recovery were 25 percent to 40 percent, he said. Mitchell had been mentally prepared, said Dr. Robert Geller, who was to have performed the transplant. ``When you've got no options, you go with what you've got,'' Geller said. Mitchell already had won one battle in getting the money for the $150,000 transplant from the state Medicaid program after Gov. James R. Thompson stepped in and reversed a decision denying funds for the operation. ``Getting the money was the hard part,'' Mitchell said as he entered the hospital March 23. ``I'm a survivor. I've walked in here and I'm going to walk out again, well.'' Geller, a bone cancer specialist, said Mitchell had been under intensive chemotherapy for the past 10 days. Those drugs and the anti-rejection drugs Mitchell would have received are highly toxic, ``and the kidney is the most important organ in handling that toxicity.'' He said Mitchell's leukemia was in an aggressive phase and that his mother was not an ideal donor. Perfect bone marrow tissue comes from a brother or sister with an identical tissue match, Geller said. But Geller said tissue match between mother and son had been good enough in the kidney operation. Mrs. Mitchell had been dying of polycystic kidney disease. Her son's act in donating his kidney ``is more dear to me now than ever,'' Mrs. Mitchell said. ``I have an everlasting part of him, my perpetual Mother's Day gift.''
AP880606-0144 	X	A prosecutor on Monday promised a full probe of the Borken mine explosion, and a national television network said he was looking into whether a flame from a cigarette lighter sparked the disaster. Rescue workers early Monday found the body of another miner, bringing the number of confirmed dead to 46. Mine owners again defended the rescue operation following the disclosure that radio contact was made with six miners hours after the blast but then cut off when a radio operator told them to stop sending signals. The owners of the mine acknowledged Sunday that a radio operator told the six miners to stop sending messages, believing they were another search team. Heinz Cramer, a technical director for Preussen Elekta, the company that owns the mine, said Monday that failure to recognize the sound _ two hammers banged together by the survivors _ as a sign of life had not diminished the rescue effort. ``We knew that the area (where the men were found) presented the best possibility of finding survivors, and that's where we began drilling,'' Cramer said. The six were discovered alive on Saturday, after officials insisted there was no sign of life in the coal mine where 57 men had been trapped since Wednesday. Prosecutors are investigating whether an open flame may have ignited the gas explosion in the Stolzenbach mine in this town 72 miles northeast of Frankfurt, the ZDF television network reported Monday. The television said cigarette lighters were found inside the mine, but mine officials say there are strict regulations against smoking underground. The six surviving miners had used lighters to test for the presence of the deadly carbon monoxide _ an odorless and invisible gas that burns with a pale-blue flame when ignited. They survived by finding an air pocket in a part of the mine free of the gas. High concentrations of carbon monoxide slowed the agonizing search for the last five men still missing in the depths of the shaft. Officials said rescuers were forced to repeatedly renew their oxygen supplies. Authorities said that because of the gas fumes, there was little chance that the missing miners would be found alive. More details emerged about the harrowing ordeal of the survivors. Ahmet Batkan, the Turkish immigrant among them, was quoted as saying the men had tried to pull a seriously injured comrade to the air pocket, but the man reportedly along the way. ``He died in my arms,'' Batkan was quoted as saying in the Bild newspaper. Prosecutor Stephan Walcher in the nearby city of Kassel said a full investigation had been launched into the cause of the disaster. ``We will review all of the information being collected to determine what caused the accident and whether there are grounds for any criminal prosecution,'' Walcher told reporters at a news conference at the mine. Officials have said the mine was regularly inspected and that all government safety regulations were followed. Erwin Braun, head of the coal administration board in Kassel, said an explosion of such ferocity had never been recorded in the region. He praised the rescue efforts. News about last Wednesday's radio contact with the six survivors has sparked intense media criticism of the rescue operation. The survivors were found after their signals were picked up by a television crew's microphone, which had been lowered into a shaft 500 feet beneath the earth. A police spokesman in the nearby town of Dillich, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said a communications center set up after the accident received a flood of calls from people offering to help in the rescue efforts. He said some of the callers claimed they had seen where the miners were trapped in their dreams. ``We tell the people we'll call them back if they are needed,'' the police spokesman said. ``So far, the rescue center has not asked us to.''
AP880916-0123 	X	Pope John Paul II today bluntly told the 20-year-old polygamist king of this tiny mountain country that God intended a husband to have only one wife. The pontiff, who arrived from Lesotho this morning, was escorted by spear-carrying warriors and soldiers with machine guns into a soccer stadium to celebrate Mass. He first was driven in the wrong direction, then slipped off a platform, without injury. Then the Mass was interrupted by the arrival of King Mswati III of Swaziland, who rolled into the stadium in a Lincoln limousine to the whistles of the crowd. A turret manned by a soldier with rifle and binoculars topped the altar, where a cross was stamped with a spear, shield and war ax. Mswati acceeded to the throne two years ago. He has four wives and is engaged to a fifth. ``Christians find that a monogamous marital union provides the foundation upon which to build a stable family in accordance with the original plan of God for marriage,'' the pope told a crowd of about 10,000 people. ``Hence, any forms of disregard for the equal dignity of men and women must be seen as serious contradiction of the truth that Chirst, the king of peace, brought into the world.'' Vatican sources said John Paul had been warned by local prelates to tread carefully before addressing the issue. King Mswati, wearing red-and-white robes and with five bird feathers decorating his head, listened expressionless to the pope's admonission. At the end of the Mass, in an unscheduled breach of protocol, the king formally thanked the pope for his visit. The two met later at the royal palace. Earlier today, red-coated soldiers greeted John Paul at the international airport of Manzini. When he arrived at the stadium, the pope's open car mistakenly drove out the gate, to the dismay of the spear-carrying warriors and Vatican security men. After returning to the stadium, the pope slipped off a platform on the soggy field before climbing onto the altar. He was not injured. On Thursday, in Maseru, Lesotho, John Paul told about 15,000 young people at a rally to ``renounce every form of violence and hatred'' in southern Africa. Organizers expected 1 million people at the rally and blamed a bloody bus hijacking, rainy winter weather and expensive accommodations _ such as $25-dollar-a-night tents _ for the small turnout. The pope visited the Queen Elizabeth II Hospital in Lesotho Thursday to comfort 20 survivors of the hijacking, many still shaken from the shootout that ended their 27-hour ordeal. ``I am saddened to learn that others on their way to join me on this pilgrimage have been victims of a hijack that has caused such anguish and ended in bloodshed,'' John Paul said Thursday, the day after police stormed the bus in Lesotho with four hijackers and 71 hostages aboard, including nuns and schoolchildren. All four hijackers and two passengers, including a 14-year-old girl, died in the exchange of gunfire Wednesday between authorities and the hijackers, officials said. Twenty others were injured. The government said police stormed the bus after the hijackers ordered the driver to crash the vehicle through the closed gate of the British High Commission. The gunman called for a return to civilian rule in Lesotho. They also demanded to meet the pope, King Moshoeshoe II and the high commissioner. After his eight-hour visit to Swaziland today, John Paul was scheduled to continue to war-torn Mozambique, the last stop on his 10-day tour of five southern African countries. The pope also went to Zimbabwe, Botswana and made a brief unscheduled stop in South Africa, where his plane was forced to land because of bad weather. Swaziland, a country of 700,000 people wedged between South Africa and Mozambique, is a dual monarchy under the king, offically known as ``the Lion,'' and a queen mother, named the ``the Great She Elephant.'' Polygamy is permissable, although most men have only one wife. King Sobhuza II, the current king's father, had more than 50 wives during his 60-year reign, which ended with his death in 1982.
AP881003-0087 	X	Israeli-backed Christian militiamen shelled a U.N.-policed vilage in south Lebanon today, wounding an Irish peacekeeper, three Lebanese women and an 8-year-old boy. Timur Goksel, spokesman for the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon, said the Irishman was injured in the head when a 60mm mortar round crashed into one of the Irish battalion posts in Qabrikha, 18 miles east of Tyre. He declined to give the Irishman's name. Lebanese police later said four villagers, including three women and a boy, also were wounded in the bombardment. Police said the South Lebanon Army militia opened up on the Shiite Moslem village after a roadside bomb exploded in the village of Qantara, in Israel's self-designated securitu zone in south Lebanon. It as not clear whether anyone was hurt in the explosion. The 2,000-man militia patrols the 6-to-10-mile deep security zone jointly with Israeli troops. The buffer was established after Israel withdrew the bulk of its occupation force from south Lebanon in 1985, ending a three-year invasion.
AP900524-0053 	X	They cheered when the fat barkeep Jock was shot. They booed when drug-dealing Leo threatened to torch his wife. And they said, ``Goodbye!'' when eye-patched Nadine threatened suicide. More than 100 fans of the broodingly comic ABC series ``Twin Peaks'' gathered Wednesday night in the Salish Lodge _ the real-life counterpart of the show's Great Northern lodge _ to watch the season-ending episode. Much of the series was shot in this small Pacific Northwest logging town about 30 miles east of Seattle. The audience sat glued to the three glowing screens in the basement ballroom of the Salish, gorging as lustily on cherry pie, doughnuts and coffee as any of the ``Twin Peaks'' townies. ``It's great. It's twisted like me and all my friends,'' said Annie Raye, who came dressed as the character Nadine, down to the makeshift patch over her left eye. ``Nadine knows a lot she's not telling,'' Ms. Raye said, referring to the unsolved murder of the character Laura Palmer in the show. ``Nadine has spent time alone with the log.'' The log, for those uninitiated in the hour-long series that will return in the fall, is usually carried by the ``log lady,'' a psychic who talks with it for insight. Locals say ``Twin Peaks,'' with its dueling-chainsaw loggers, satanic cults and macabre death plots, has little to do with the real Snoqualmie. But they're addicted anyway. Garnet Cross, who bakes pies for the cafe immortalized by the show _ the Mar-T in nearby North Bend _ was given a front row seat at Wednesday's gathering. Ms. Cross, who has baked pies for 50 years, said the demand for her authentic cherry pies has exploded since FBI agent Dale Cooper first smacked his lips over the Double R Diner's cherry pie in the ``Twin Peaks'' pilot. She said people include the Mar-T on trips to Washington now, and she's had requests to mail pies out of state. ``This is the best thing that's happened to me,'' she said. Mar-T owner Pat Cokewell said: ``We used to sell about one a week. Now we sell as many as she makes.'' The ballroom gathering was organized by radio station KLSY, which has started calling itself the official ``Twin Peaks'' station. Announcer Tim Hunter said he got hooked after watching the first episode. He said he received more than 200 calls when he asked if listeners wanted the station to recap the show each week. That led to a radio contest, and winners got to come to the season-finale party in real ``Twin Peaks'' territory. At least one local wasn't happy with the show. Louis Delicino looked harried in his Salish Lodge tuxedo shirt and bow tie as he rushed from table to table delivering plates of cherry pie. Pausing with three plates balanced on his left arm and two more in his right, the Snoqualmie native said, ``This is surely madness over a TV show that has no connection to real life.''
AP880711-0107 	X	Iran is still searching for the ``black box'' recorder that may hold important information about the flight of a jetliner shot down by a U.S. warship, the Iranian navy commander said Monday. Commodore Mohammed Hussein Malekzadegan spoke after the English-language Dubai newspaper Khaleej Times, quoting salvage experts it did not identify, said Iranian frogmen recovered the flight recorder in the Persian Gulf ``a couple of days ago.'' Malekzadegan said in an interview on Tehran radio the black box ``may have been destroyed'' when missiles fired by the cruiser USS Vincennes hit the Iran Air Airbus on July 3, killing all 290 people aboard. ``It's also possible that we may find it,'' he said. ``In any case, the search is continuing.'' Data in the recorder could help determine whether the Airbus A300 received radio warnings from the Vincennes. The Pentagon says the jetliner did not respond to warnings and the cruiser's radar operators mistook the plane for an F-14 fighter because it seemed to be emitting military-type responses. American officials have backed away from earlier claims that the plane was descending or was outside civilian flight lanes. The Khaleej Times said the salvage experts it quoted had worked with Iran in the past and expressed surprise that recovery of the black box had not been announced. It also quoted Itay's commander in the gulf, Rear Adm. Angelo Mariani, as saying the heavy air and sea traffic could complicate investigations of the tragedy. ``There are so many boats, small and big ships, airliners, military jets of various kinds,'' he said. Mariani said the Italian frigate Espero heard a U.S. warship, not identified, radio at least one warning to an aircraft shortly before the Airbus was shot down, the Khaleej Times said. ``Since we only listen to military frequencies, I cannot confirm whether the same message was repeated on the civilian international frequency or not, but I assume it must have been,'' he was quoted as saying. Pentagon spokesmen said repeated warnings were sent on military and civilian channels. In London, the Sunday Times said a British intelligence report based on monitored radio communications is ``severely critical'' of the U.S. Navy for shooting the airliner down. According to the Times, the report says Iran Air Flight 655 left Bandar Abbas for Dubai only three minutes late, was on the correct flight path and was climbing when the missiles struck. It said the report suggested a skirmish with armed Iranian speedboats in which the shooting started July 3 may have been provoked by U.S. helicopters entering Iranian air space. The Vincennes and the USS Elmer Montgomery destroyed two boats and damaged one before the cruiser shot the plane down. The U.S. Navy was escorting the year's 46th convoy of U.S.-flagged Kuwaiti tankers Monday, moving up the gulf to the sheikdom. The 294,739-ton products carrier Townsend was accompanied by the frigate Robert G. Bradley, said a spokesman at U.S. Central Command headquarters in Tampa, Fla. Eleven Kuwait-owned tankers have been given U.S. registraton so the Navy can protect them. Convoys began in July 1987. A Navy investigation of the Airbus disaster was in its sixth day Monday and the Vincennes was anchored off Bahrain with two barges alongside. Its crew has been restricted to the ship for security reasons, with sailors allowed ashore only in small groups to make telephone calls home.
AP900503-0051 	X	Secretary of State James A. Baker III today proposed that 35 foreign ministers from East and West meet in New York in late September to plan a summit meeting by the end of the year. Baker put the proposal to a NATO session meeting in Brussels to discuss security in a changing Europe. The objective of the summit would be the signing of a treaty to sharply reduce troops, tanks, artillery and other non-nuclear arms in Europe. The NATO foreign ministers took no direct action on Baker's proposal for preparations in New York, according to Italian and other European sources. His initiative confirms President Bush's determination to conclude the treaty being negotiated by NATO and the Warsaw Pact by year's end. The accord would set a limit of 195,000 Soviet troops outside Soviet borders and 225,000 U.S. troops in Western and Central Europe. The 35 nations include all the European states except Albania, along with the United States and Canada. In 1975 they signed the Helsinki agreement to lessen tensions in Europe. ``We are all of the opinion that (the summit) must be thoroughly prepared,'' West German Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher told reporters. He reiterated Bonn's position that the 35-mation grouping, known as Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, must be given more weight in Europe's future. Baker, flying to Brussels on Wednesday from Washington, enthusiastically endorsed the proposition. He said a larger role by the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe was part of the ``new security architecture'' for Europe that he first proposed in a Berlin speech in December. NATO Secretary General Manfred Woerner said the alliance had agreed to accept France's invitation to host the conference summit in Paris. At the summit, the 16 NATO and seven Warsaw Pact nations would sign a conventional arms agreement. Negotiations on that agreement are now tangled over limits on aircraft and helicopters, and methods of verifying reductions within the two alliances.
AP880222-0083 	X	Sara and Amy Kienast glare at each other over feet propped on the dining room table and argue the finer points of rock 'n' roll music. They both like it, but Amy wouldn't be caught listening to REM. And so it goes with the Kienast quintuplets: They are so much alike yet so different. Sara, Amy, Abby, Ted and Gordon turn 18 on Wednesday and hope the day marks the end of media-mobbed birthdays and the beginning of separate lives. ``We've been five all our lives. Now is our chance to be one,'' said Sara as her brothers and sisters nod in agreement. ``We want to make a name for ourselves, by ourselves.'' After years of press scrutiny, well-publicized financial problems and the suicide of their father, the quints are a steely bunch and proud of it. They also are distinctly individual. Each plans to attend a different college and four have picked schools far from the spacious farmhouse in this New York City suburb where they grew up. ``It's about time,'' Abby said with a grin. ``I've been with them for 18 years. I could make do without seeing their faces every day.'' None plans to tell new friends he or she is a quintuplet. ``Why should we have someone look at us and think of four different people,'' said Sara. The quints say their separation in the fall will be painless because they all live separate lives now. ``We basically have the same friends, but we don't hang out with the same people,'' said Amy. ``On the weekends, we don't do things together.'' The siblings say that all that sets them apart from other teen-agers is that there are five of them. ``We have the same fights, you know, that other brothers and sisters have. The girls are always taking my sweaters and stuff,'' Ted said to the protests of his sisters. The quints gained worldwide attention when they were born Feb. 24, 1970, after their mother, Peggy Jo Kienast, took fertility drugs. At first, many offers of help and endorsement opportunities clothed and fed the children. But financial pressures began a few years later and an anonymous source saved them from eviction by providing more than $115,000 to pay off mortgages and property taxes the Kienasts owed. In 1984, the quints' father, William, committed suicide after his plastics business began to falter. At that most difficult time, reporters and photographers camped outside the family's home, making the family angry. ``I really started to resent the media when dad died,'' said Sara. ``There's a limit you can take. ``I understand now,'' said Ted. ``They have a job to do and someone sends them out to get a picture and they have paychecks and families, too. But at the time it was too much.'' Despite the unwanted attention, the quintuplets say they appreciated the cards and letters they received from around the world when their father died. They also say they have put his death behind them. ``We couldn't dwell on it,'' Amy said. ``Mom wanted us to get on with our lives.'' Mrs. Kienast says she's looking forward to her children leaving home. ``I'm all for parenting and children, but I don't live through my children. I'm looking forward to this next step,'' she said. ``You're worn out by their senior year.'' The quints' birthdays _ what Ted calls ``press day'' _ have always been met by clicking cameras and a string of interviews. But this year will be different: The quints plan to go their separate ways and celebrate with friends on Wednesday, then hold a private family party on Sunday.
AP900504-0172 	X	Seventeen Marines suffered injuries in the rough landing of a helicopter troopship at a desert training area Friday afternoon, a Marine Corps spokesman said. Medical personnel late Friday were examining the extent of injuries to the Marines hurt in the 2:15 p.m. accident at the Marine Air-Ground Combat Center, Capt. Timothy Hoyle said. The injured, most of them based at Camp Pendleton, flew in another aircraft for treatment at the Navy hospital at Twentynine Palms, about 140 miles northeast of Los Angeles, Hoyle said. The helicopter, a CH-46E Sea Knight, and its crew of three belong to the 3rd Marine Aircraft Wing, headquartered at the Marine Corps Air Station in El Toro, Calif. Investigators searched for the cause of the accident, Hoyle said. The severity of damage to the aircraft was not immediately known. The 25-passenger Sea Knight, an assault helicopter in service since the Vietnam War, was participating in helicopter-borne assault training.
AP901109-0226 	X	Stock prices rose sharply today, propelled by hopes for lower interest rates. Shortly before the close, the Dow Jones average of 30 industrials was up 44.06 at 2,487.87.
AP900108-0241 	X	Jeff H. Reynolds, who is seeking control of financially struggling Bond Corp. Holdings Ltd. in return for a $197 million investment, has a business address that is a mail-drop. His U.S. company, Weatherby Investments Inc., does not appear to be traded publicly as he contends, officials said Monday. The 28-year-old Texan, little known on the investment scene, said in a news release last week that he was negotiating with Bond Holdings, the Australian holding company. The release listed an answering service as a contact number. The answering service forwarded calls about the offer to Reynolds mother's house in Houston, where he discussed his business and personal history in a telephone call Monday morning. Messages left in later follow-up calls to a brother and an answering machine at the house were not returned. Among the unanswered questions are: _Why his news release said his Weatherby Investments Inc. is an over-the-counter stock and why he said it was traded over-the-counter on the ``pink sheet'' distributed by the National Quotation Bureau. The National Quotation Bureau and the National Association of Securities Dealers have no record of Weatherby, and it is not listed in guides to over-the-counter stocks. Reynolds said Monday Weatherby had earlier been known as California Pacific Industries, and he intended to change the name back. But there was no listing under that name either. _Why the address and suite to which investors are invited to send questions is a private mail-drop box in Beverly Hills, a year-and-a-half after Reynolds says he moved his operations from Texas to California. In the conversation early Monday, Reynolds said his work was done from several offices, including an unspecified location in Century City, but he gave no address and said he is still looking for a central location. Reynolds describes himself as an intensely private businessman, who used to walk in his bankers' side doors because he favored jeans and cutoffs. He says he still feels more comfortable in a sweatsuit, crunching numbers at a computer terminal, than in a suit and tie. ``I've always had a real hardcore attitude about other businesses and banks _ if they're going to deal with me they're going to have to know me and put up with me,'' he said. ``I'm not going to fit into their world.'' Bond, the holding company whose Australian brewing interests are in the hand of receivers, says it will listen to offers from Reynolds, who says Weatherby is a division of Singapore-based California Pacific International Pte Ltd. Reynolds says he is descended from a long line of oilmen in Throckmorton, Texas, and locals there say books have been written about the Reynolds clan and its intermarriages with the even more famous Matthews cattle and oil family. Reynolds said he took freshman English and biology classes at the University of Texas and a few business classes at various colleges before succumbing to entrepreneurial urges. He got started in business by importing ``gray market'' cars, upgrading them to meet American standards and selling them at a profit, he said. ``Actually I was living in Austin and a few of my frat brothers got in with me,'' Reynolds said. ``We had some cash flow and it looked pretty good and I said, `The hell with this' (college career).'' As it stands now, he says he's confident he can find refinancing for Bond's $6 billion debt. Bond says it wants to see more details, and skeptics in the international investment community say they have never heard of Reynolds or his operations. Reynolds says he got a real-estate broker's license in Texas in 1983 and got involved in development companies. He also says he has dabbled in a clay-tile factory in France.
AP880627-0258 	X	Making the jump from high school senior to college freshman may be traumatic for a youngster, but what about the parent? Pete Goldsmith, dean of student life at Old Dominion University in Norfolk, Va., has some advice for being a ``successful'' college parent: _ Stay informed. Read the school's newsletters and other information that is generally sent to you by the college. Get your own copy of the college catalog and student handbook. _ Get involved. Check into any parents' associations at the school. In addition to feeling more a part of the college, you'll make new friends. _ Communicate. Don't hesitate to call if you are concerned about something innvolving the college or your child. _ Expect change. There will be times you may not like what your child is doing or uncomfortable with thoughts expressed, but be patient and understanding. And be flexible. _ Provide challenge and support. It's like teaching a child to swim: the parent decides when to let him flounder and when to rescue him. The college experience is no different. Parents need to decide when to provide encouragement and when to intervene. When it comes to financial support beyond tuition, room, board and books, take a walk through the campus, the bookstore and the town. You'll gain a sense of what's appropriate. _ Show your interest. Ask about academic work. Visit the campus on Parents' Weekend or other special occasions. _ Trust your student. You'd be surprised at the common sense most students display.
AP900503-0235 	X	Some states are considering whether to ban use of a synthetic hormone to increase cows' milk production, but the federal government has allowed the milk to be sold to the public even though it hasn't approved the hormone for commercial use. No one has been able to refute the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's conclusion that dairy products and meat from animals treated with the hormone are safe for people. But many are uncertain about what they see as an invasion of essential foods and say not enough is known about long-term effects of bovine somatotropin (pronounced soh-mat-uh-TROPE-in), or BST. ``I've got four girls here, ages 1 to 9, and I don't want that stuff in my milk,'' said Chuck Brown, a Minnesota legislator. He led a successful drive for a temporary ban on the genetically engineered hormone, known also as BGH. ``It seems to me that No. 1, the cows don't want it, the vast majority of dairy farmers in this state don't want it, the consumers don't want it. So who wants it? The four companies making it. Who are we working for?'' Brown said last week from his Appleton, Minn., home. The companies _ Monsanto Agriculture Co., Eli Lilly Co., Upjohn Co. and American Cyanamid _ have applied to FDA for marketing approval. The homone injections increase a cow's milk production from 10 percent to 25 percent, and the worldwide market for BST has been estimated at more than $500 million a year. Critics have not suggested a specific health risk but say not enough research has been done to be sure the hormone would be safe for people. It would be the first major biotechnology product to reach the agriculture market. Although FDA approval is not expected for about a year, the agency has allowed milk from test herds being treated with BST to be sold to the public. ``Way below'' 1 percent of the milk would come from these cows, and it generally is mixed, usually at dairy cooperatives, with milk from other herds, Bonnie Aikman, an FDA spokeswoman, said. There is no way for a consumer to know, but several companies, including Borden's, and some supermarket chains said they would not use or sell products from cows in the BST test herds. Jeremy Rifkin, president of the Foundation on Economic Trends and a frequent biotechnology critic, is campaigning for a boycott against BST. Dairy farmers are worried about how consumers might react to products from treated cows. And some say increased milk production will lower prices, hurting small farmers. A temporary ban was approved last month in Wisconsin, and legislation is pending in New York, Pennsylvania and Vermont. And, at the request of Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, the General Accounting Office is reviewing FDA's assessment of the risks of BST. Leahy's concern was prompted in part by an FDA veterinarian who said he was fired after alleging that testing of BST was flawed. Aikman acknowledged the controversy over milk safety but added that the FDA's ``veterinary people said it is one of the safest drugs that they have reviewed.'' In addition to human safety, the FDA must determine if BST is safe for animals and the environment and whether it does what it claims to, that is, increase milk production. Monsanto spokesman Gerry Ingenthron said research has been conducted for a decade and the studies have ``raised no concern about the safety of the product.'' The treated cows, he said, are injected with synthetic BST, a protein made from the animals' genes that is ``virtually the same as a protein they already produce.'' BST is also a natural product of cows' pituitary glands. Proponents claim the injections of synthetic hormone produce no changes that affect the safety of food. Opponents say too little work has been done on too few cows to reach conclusions about effects on cows and people. Consumer groups also complain that FDA and the companies involved should make test information public.
AP880817-0193 	X	A research project to find ways of killing the Asian cockroach, a pest that invaded Florida two years ago, has not been ended and will continue at least through the next fiscal year, the Agriculture Department said Wednesday. Ralph A. Bram, head of research on insects affecting humans and animals for the department's Agricultural Research Service, said the agency has ``not closed out any research program aimed at controlling these pests.'' Bram said the agency's research budget next year is for $243,700 to be spent on cockroaches, the same as this year. The work is done at the agency's laboratory in Gainesville, Fla., in cooperation with the University of Florida. The agency said recent published reports, including one in the St. Petersburg Times, ``implied'' that another USDA scientist, Richard J. Brenner, said the cockroach will spread to all of the contiguous 48 states. Bram said Brenner actually said there is no way of knowing exactly how far north the cockroach will migrate. Because of winter temperatures, he said, it is doubtful the insect would survive father north than Maryland on the East Coast, Tennessee in the central area, and lower Washington state in the West.
AP880330-0148 	X	Police clashed with about 250 stone-throwing Moslem fundamentalists who attacked a theater troupe, a security source said Wednesday. One student was killed and four were injured as officers dispersed the crowd. The source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the incident took place Tuesday night at the village of Kodeya, 25 miles from the southern provincial capital of Assiut. He said it wasn't known what killed 23-year-old Mohammed Kotb. One of the four wounded students was in critical condition, he added. In a statement read to The Associated Press by telephone, a fundamentalist spokesman claimed the student was killed by police gunfire. ``The Moslem group went out through the village in a peaceful march of protest ... when police attacked them with tear gas and opened fire on the demonstrators, killing the student Mohammed Kotb,'' the statement said. The spokesman, who refused to give his name, said forces then surrounded the village, raided homes and detained fundamentalists. The spokesman said the students were protesting a ``dancing party'' organized by security forces. The security source, however, said the fundamentalists attacked a theater troupe performing a play about Islam and peasants. The troup had been invited to perform by the government's culture club at the village. ``Around 250 Moslem fundamentalists from the village and nearby villages gathered in a mosque after evening prayers and then moved to the hall where the play was being performed, carrying stones and rocks,'' the source said. He said the students, from a teacher training college, ``attacked the hall and tried to destroy the building,'' but security forces surrounded them and used tear gas and sticks to disperse them. He did not say whether police made any arrests. Police forces guarded the building until the play was finished, the source said. The southern Assiut province has been a hotbed of fundamentalist agitation for almost a decade. Fundamentalist students armed with knives, bicycle chains and stones, attacked an Assiut University campus parade on March 7, denouncing it as an anti-Islamic ``dancing and singing party.'' In the ensuing clash with security forces, two students and two policemen were wounded.
AP880829-0077 	X	A Finnish military training plane failed to come out of a spin during an air show stunt and crashed, killing the pilot hours after an air show disaster claimed more than 40 lives in West Germany. The crash Sunday at Kleine Brogel Air Base, 68 miles northeast of Brussels, was the second such air accident this month in Belgium. Witnesses said one of the two Redigo aircraft taking part in the show organized by the Belgian air force was unable to come out of a spin during stunt manuevers and plunged to the ground. Officials said the pilot, Ari Piippo, was flying too low to enable him to safely eject from the plane, which belonged to the state-owned Finnish aircraft maker Valmet. Valmet recently sold 10 Redigo airplanes to Finland's air force for training purposes. On Aug. 7, a Belgian pilot died when his Mirage-5 jetfighter crashed at an air show, also organized by the Belgian air force, at Leopoldsburg, seven miles west of Kleine Brogel Air Base.
AP900401-0056 	X	Brent Musburger, the primary voice of CBS Sports in the 1980s, was fired by the network Sunday after negotiations on a new contract broke down. The network announced that the broadcast of Monday's college basketball championship will be the last CBS assignment for Musburger, who had been scheduled to cover major-league baseball this summer. ``I was surprised, but it was a great run and I have a million memories, and I leave behind a lot of good friends,'' Musburger said in a statement read by Jimmy Tubbs, his personal assistant. ``At this time, I'm going to take an extended vacation, and I'll be working again someday, somewhere.'' Ted Shaker, executive producer of CBS Sports, said network officials believed Musburger's workload was too heavy, but that the broadcaster resisted attempts by CBS in contract talks to have him cut down. ``It's a difficult decision,'' said CBS Sports President Neal H. Pilson. ``It's never easy to deal with individuals with whom you have personal or business relationships.'' Musburger has been reported to earn between $1.6 million and $2 million per year from CBS. Pilson said he wouldn't describe the negotiations as ``a squabble over money,'' but refused to say what was in dispute. Pilson said negotiations for a new contract had been going on for several months between the network and Todd Musburger, who represents his brother. He said the Musburgers had asked for a decision by Sunday. Both Musburgers were unavailable Sunday but Tubbs, Musburger's assistant for 5{ years, said it had been apparent for several days that talks weren't going well. ``It wasn't right out of the blue,'' Tubbs said. ``Negotiations had been going on and they just broke off.'' Broadcasting the National Collegiate Athletic Association basketball game between Duke and the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, will be the final CBS assignment for Musburger, the network said in announcing the decision. Musburger's 5{-year contract was to expire in July. Musburger is in his sixth season as lead play-by-play man for the NCAA basketball tournament and has been host of ``The NFL Today'' since 1975. He has anchored the Masters golf tournament, the NBA finals, the Pan American Games and late-night coverage of the U.S. Open tennis tournament. Musburger, who has been with CBS Sports since 1975, was scheduled to become the main voice for CBS' baseball coverage, which begins April 14. He also was in line to host the network's coverage of the 1992 and 1994 Winter Olympics. Industry speculation on a possible baseball replacement for Musburger centered on Al Michaels, said to be unhappy with his status at ABC. Michaels was unavailable to comment Sunday.
AP901224-0095 	X	One of five soldiers injured in a training accident last week has died, bringing the death toll in Operation Desert Shield to 81, the U.S. military's Central Command announced Monday. The soldiers from the 3/320th Field Artillery of the 101st Airborne Division were participating in a training exercise Thursday when a 105mm howitzer exploded, the military said. One of the soldiers, who had been in a coma, died Sunday, the military said. His name was withheld pending notification of next of kin. The cause of the accident is under investigation. Two sailors from the aircraft carrier USS Midway also died Sunday when their tour bus overturned on a liberty excursion, the military's Joint Information Bureau announced Monday. Five other sailors were injured, two seriously, in the accident 50 miles south of al-Dhafra airbase in Abu Dhabi. On Saturday in the Mediterranean, a chartered Israeli ferry carrying U.S. sailors capsized while returning to the USS Saratoga from the Israeli port of Haifa, killing 21 sailors.
AP881226-0108 	X	Two men trapped in an avalanche while sliding down a hill were rescued after nearly seven hours under 6 feet of snow, authorities said. ``These guys are very lucky. It was a stupid move on their part,'' said police Officer John Chilton. Passers-by dug out Brett Woods, 24, and Keith Kathcart, 19, late Sunday after hearing screams and seeing a glove resting atop the snow near the Chapman Hill ski area. The two were hospitalized in good condition Monday. Close to 3 feet of snow had fallen in southwest Colorado by Sunday, prompting the Avalanche Warning Center in Denver to warnings throughout the weekend. Woods and Kathcart were sliding down a steep embankment when the snow slide occurred. They were admitted to Mercy Medical Center with hypothermia and muscle injuries, authorities said. Woods' body temperature had dropped to 91 degrees after the accident, while Kathkart's was 87, said Dr. Mack Johnson. ``I guess under the circumstances, they were in pretty good condition,'' said Frank Mackey of the Fire Department. ``They could talk and one of them walked to the ambulance.'' Andy Loving of the Avalanche Warning Center said the U.S record for surviving snow burial is nine hours. ``After 30 minutes of burial, the chances of survival are reduced by half,'' he said. ``They must have had some kind of air space around them.''
AP900302-0188 	X	Former Republican Sen. Lowell P. Weicker Jr., the maverick lawmaker who made a career of bucking his party and championing liberal causes, said Friday he would run for governor of Connecticut as an independent. ``You're going to get one hell of a race,'' declared the former three-term senator. ``I think I'm going to win it. I don't think it's any gamble at all.'' Weicker, 58, told reporters, supporters and onlookers in a packed Capitol conference room that his unsuccessful bid for a fourth Senate term in 1988 ``took me down a peg or two and probably deservedly so. I've taken my licks.'' ``It's now 1990 and I believe that, as never before, we need each other,'' he said. The announcement capped weeks of intense speculation about Weicker, who in 28 years of political activity cultivated a reputation for aggressive, independent Republicanism. He became a national figure in the mid-70s as one of the first Republicans to take on President Richard M. Nixon during the Watergate scandal. Weicker would say nothing negative about Democratic Gov. William A. O'Neill or Rep. Bruce A. Anderson, a four-term congressman challenging O'Neill for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination. Nor would he criticize any of the four Republicans now in the running. Weicker was elected to the Senate in 1970 in a three-way race in which the Democrats were badly split. Of his bid to make it a three-way race in the November election, he said: ``The ironies are not lost on me, I can assure you.'' Weicker said he expects he'll need campaign funds of $1 million or $2 million, less than half of what the other major party candidates are talking about spending. The Greenwich millionaire said he wouldn't spend any of his own money on the race. Democrats hailed his decision to run, saying it would divide the GOP and throw the party into chaos. State GOP Chairman Richard Foley said that with Weicker's announcement, ``the race is over. We just won,'' but his voice didn't carry conviction.
AP901219-0001 	X	``We as an American public don't reach out to help one another like we used to. We don't share like we used to. We've become a very selfish nation.'' - Charlotte, N.C., Mayor Sue Myrick, co-chair of the United States Conference of Mayors' Task Force on Hunger and Homelessness. --- ``Considering the sorry state of education in California, it would be more appropriate to name a high school after Ronald Reagan than to name it after me.'' - Rock musician Frank Zappa, declining to have a high school named after him. --- ``Aristide is the medium through which the people have discovered the possibility of being protected by being together. That's what the other Haitian politicians didn't understand. The people wanted justice.'' - Human rights activist Jean-Claude Bajeaux on the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, probable winner in Haiti's first fully democratic election.
AP901111-0055 	X	A group of prominent Algerians announced plans Sunday to hold a tribunal next month against President Bush on charges including crimes against humanity. The group said it plans to hold the proceedings in the Algerian capital, Algiers, on Dec. 10. Foremost among the charges will be ``threatening peace and world security by his preparation for an aggressive war against Iraq,'' the group said in a communique. The Algerian tribunal will be headed by Ali Ammar Louar, former president of Algeria's bar association. It will be made up of academics, lawyers and intellectuals active in human rights, the group said. The tribunal is apparently not sponsored by the Algerian government. It would have no way of enforcing its sentence. In its statement, the group said the U.S.-led economic blockade of Iraq is a crime under ``terms of the international convention for prevention of and punishment for genocide.'' The sanctions, approved by the United Nations, were imposed after Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait.
AP900622-0164 	X	Israeli Foreign Minister David Levy offered Friday to send humanitarian relief to Iran to help search for trapped survivors of that country's killer earthquake. ``Israel is very sorry for the grave natural disaster in Iran and is prepared to give the Iranians immediate aid as it has done for various other nations,'' said Eliza Goren, Levy's spokeswoman. Iran reportedly said humanitarian aid would be welcomed from all nations except South Africa and Israel. Goren said Levy made the offer through the League of International Red Cross. Israel has had no diplomatic ties with Iran since the Islamic revolution ousted the Shah in 1979. Dr. Mark Heller, a top researcher at the Jaffe Center for Strategic Studies, said no one really expected the offer to be accepted. ``I suspect that this is an attempt to demonstrate to the Iranians that Israel has no intrinsic hostility to Iran,'' Heller said. ``But I don't think that anyone seriously expects the Iranian government will accept.'' Levy's offer to Iran comes as the new right-wing government has made various moves toward neighboring Arab states. Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir has invited Syrian President Hafez Assad to unconditioned talks and published his phone number, requesting any Arab states seeking peace to call. But Goren said Levy's offer to send a relief team to Iran was made on humanitarian grounds only. Before Khomeini rose to power, Iran was an island of support for the Jewish state in the Middle East, and home to a wealthy Jewish community of about 60,000. It also provided 40 percent of Israel's oil needs. Israel sent relief teams after Iran's September 1978 earthquake. Israel has hoped that President Ali Khamenei would be more moderate than his predecessor. ``Israel has tried to cultivate better relations with Iran for a long time but since the revolt the Iranian regime has been extremely hostile to Israel,'' Heller said. ``The offer is consistent with Israeli policy in the past the only change will be if Iran actually accepts.'' Clandestine contacts between Israel and Iran, however, have continued. They largely involved the sale of weapons and spare parts during Iran's eight-year war with Iraq. In December 1987, Israel sent a 42-member rescue team to search for survivors in Soviet Armenia.
AP900831-0230 	X	Wholesale gasoline and crude oil prices moved higher in the futures market Friday, but failed to recover all the ground lost earlier in the week. Traders said buying picked up as the stalemate in the Middle East dragged on. Early waves of selling this week had been inspired by hopes for a quick negotiated settlement to the crisis, which has threatened the world's oil supplies. Light sweet crude oil rose 55 cents on the New York Mercantile Exchange to end the week at $27.32 per barrel on contracts for October delivery. ``The general perception in the market is continued concern or anxiety that the diplomatic solutions don't look like they're coming through,'' said Ann-Louise Hittle, senior oil analyst with Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. Friday's strongest move was in unleaded regular gasoline, which rose 7.25 cents to 96.32 cents per gallon for September contracts in their last day of trading on the New York Merc. Home heating oil was up .35 cent to 75.89 cents per gallon, also on the last day of trading for September delivery. ``There is a shortage of refining capacity in the world, and the situation in the Middle East has really affected those refineries,'' said Bernard Picchi, an analyst with Salomon Brothers Inc. A daily refining capacity of 1.3 million barrels has been taken off the world market because of the embargo of Iraq and Kuwait, he said. ``The Middle East is not just a big crude oil exporting region. It's also a big products exporting region,'' Picchi said. The stock market has tended to move in opposite directions from petroleum prices since Iraq invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2, but it gained ground Friday in slow, indecisive trading. Analysts said it was difficult to read much significance into the market's meanderings, noting that many investors were getting an early start on Labor Day. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials rose 21.04 to 2,614.36, finishing the week with a net gain of 81.44 points. Oil was down for the week. Crude futures took a hit of $4 per barrel on Monday and nearly $2 per barrel on Wednesday. Gains on other trading days were more modest, leaving the per-barrel price down $3.59 from the previous Friday, which had capped a string of three trading days above the $30 mark. Gasoline was down 8.4 cents per gallon for the week. Heating oil was down 15.05 cents per gallon for the week. Natural gas futures closed at $1.500 per 1,000 cubic feet for October contracts on Friday, down from $1.537 a day earlier and $1.525 a week earlier. Analysts said some traders were keeping prices up as they bought futures Friday to avoid getting caught short over the long Labor Day weekend. New York financial markets are closed Monday.
AP880512-0265 	X	The memorandum added: ``Since some recent health problems among embassy staff appear similar to EMP (electromagnetic pulse) researchers at Boeing, at MIT (Massachusetts Institute of Technology), and possibly at the Naval Special Weapons Center, comparison of details of exposure and later-occurring pathologies appears warranted.'' Health problems which have been reported among personnel working with electromagnetic pulse equipment include an unusually high incidence of brain tumors and liver diseases. A memorandum prepared by Myers following his 1975 visit to Moscow said, ``Dr. Herbert Pollack, a State Department consulting physician, has found that several members of the embassy display symptoms that are non-specific but have been reported frequently in patients chronically exposed to non-ionizing radiation.'' Such symptoms include headaches, inability to concentrate and fatigue, as well as physiological effects including shifts in the ratios of various blood cells. Soviet intentions remain the foremost unanswered question surrounding irradiation of the embassy. Attempts to figure out the purposes behind the microwave beams have involved specialists at the State Department, CIA, Defense Intelligence Agency, Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency and National Security Agency. The difficulties posed by this task were reflected in a June 6, 1975 letter in which the CIA's Colby told Eagleburger at State: ``We hope that by working together State and CIA technical officers can come up with satisfactory answers to this perennial enigma.'' Three theories have been put forward as possible explanations: _The Soviets were trying to interfere with U.S. electronic intelligence-gathering operations; _The microwaves were used to interact with Soviet eavesdropping devices planted within the embassy; _Or the Soviets were trying to induce psychological, behavioral or physiological effects among American personnel. Mark Garrison, who served as head of the State Department's Soviet desk and then as the Moscow embassy's No. 2 official before retiring in 1980, said in an interview, ``We never did really figure out to my satisfaction what the purpose of the microwaves was. I've got hunches about it, but there was no final, formal finding that was passed down from the technicians.'' ``It's extremely difficult for people running the political side of the (U.S.-Soviet) relationship and the management side to get a good handle on high-tech electronic stuff,'' said Garrison, now director of Brown University's Center for Foreign Policy. Garrison leans toward the electronic jamming theory. However, that explanation has been challenged by Moscow veterans familiar with the military-run electronic intelligence-gathering operations. Retired Army Brig. Gen. R.E. Barber said he ``absolutely cannot accept'' the jamming hypothesis because when he was in Moscow during the mid-1960s the microwaves ``had no effect whatsoever on our activities.'' Samuel Koslov, a non-ionizing radiation specialist who has helped investigate the radiation, believes the beams probably were been intended to interact with Soviet listening devices. ``They (U.S. debugging specialists) still haven't satisfied themselves that they've found all the devices that may have been interacting with that signal. They may have found some of them, but they certainly haven't found all of them,'' said Koslov, a biophysicist at Johns Hopkins University's Applied Physics Laboratory in Laurel, Md. He added, however, that ``there could have been different purposes at different times'' over the 35-year history of the microwaves problem. Regarding possible anti-personnel uses of microwave radiation, Koslov said, ``I wouldn't say that it is impossible to produce psychological effects, but you would have to do it with very different kinds of signals, much higher power than what you have there.'' Other American specialists involved in the investigations have raised the ``mind control'' and weaponry possibilities. Among them was Richard S. Cesaro, who in the mid-1960s was serving as deputy director for advanced sensors at the Pentagon's Advanced Research Projects Agency. Cesaro helped run the classified Pandora Project, in which monkeys were exposed to a ``synthetic Moscow signal'' in a laboratory at Walter Reed Army Institute of Research. Initially, Pandora researchers believed that the irradiation had caused subtle behavioral effects in the test animals. By mid-1969 consideration was being given to expanding the project to include human subjects. Later, however, re-analysis of the experimental data raised doubts about its validity. A scientific review panel decided in 1970 that the project should be disbanded. Nevertheless, Cesaro, in an interview prior to his death two years ago, contended that ``in our experiments we did some remarkable things. And there was no question in my mind that you can get into the brain with microwaves.'' Arguing that the Soviet bloc's investment of funds, personnel and laboratory facilities in research on non-ionizing radiation bioeffects has far outstripped the West's, he said, ``I look at it as still a major, serious, unsettled threat to the security of the United States.'' ``If you really make the breakthrough, you've got something better than any bomb ever built, because when you finally come down the line you're talking about controlling people's minds,'' Cesaro said. Another research effort whose results proved highly controversial was the State Department's secret genetic testing program, carried out from 1966 to 1969 under the cover name of the ``Moscow Viral Study.'' This project involved taking blood samples from embassy personnel exposed to the Soviet microwaves and from a control group and analyzing the white blood cells for possible chromosomal damage. Those who were tested were not told the actual purpose, but instead were given the cover story about checking for a viral condition. By late 1968 concern about results of the cytogenetic testing had mounted among senior officials privy to the findings, and the university contractor, Dr. Cecil Jacobson, urged that the study be continued and expanded. In mid-1969, however, the State Department abruptly decided to terminate the study, after having test slides re-examined by four outside consultants. Nicholas H. Steneck, a University of Michigan history professor and author of a book, ``The Microwave Debate,'' said the cytogenetic testing program ``was set aside on the shoddiest and shakiest of grounds.'' ``At the very least there was scientific ambiguity, because there were some researchers who said the techniques were very good and that they did see effects,'' Steneck said. ``If nothing else, on the basis of that you do a follow-up study _ you don't just crank it down.'' Asked about Steneck's remarks, Dr. Charles E. Brodine, State Department assistant medical director for environmental health and preventive medicine, said he had not been with the department at the time of the genetic testing program and would prefer not to comment. Government officials and outside experts say one of the biggest lessons learned from the microwave problem was that it was a mistake to keep the radiation secret from most employees until February 1976, when the State Department began briefing current, former and prospective Moscow personnel. ``The main lesson is to be upfront with employees about things that they might consider to affect their health and well-being,'' said Garrison, the former State Department official.
AP901220-0047 	X	The White House took a cautious, wait-and-see attitude today to Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze's surprise announcement he was resigning his post. ``It's not entirely clear what the situation is. We need to clarify that first'' before saying anything further, said White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater. Asked if he thought Shevardnadze's decision was final, Fitzwater said, ``We don't know.'' ``I just talked to the State Department and we want to at least make sure we know exactly what's happened there'' before commenting further, the press secretary added. Secretary of State James A. Baker III has forged a close working relationship with Shevardnadze on arms control and on the Persian Gulf crisis.
AP880222-0104 	X	Democratic presidential contender Michael Dukakis said today at the White House that the Reagan administration's anti-terrorist policy is worthless because of arms dealing with Iran. In the Midwest Republican Bob Dole taunted George Bush for refusing to compete in Minnesota and South Dakota. Dukakis, speaking to reporters after a National Governors' Association meeting with the president, said, ``I'd have a much tougher, and much more consistent anti-terrorist policy.'' The Massachusetts governor, referring to the sale of arms to Iran during secret negotiations to free American hostages, said, ``We'll be living with the consequences of what happened in 1985 for a long time.'' ``You never, ever make concessions to terrorism. If you ever do it, then your policy is worthless. And that's what we did,'' said Dukakis. Asked about Dukakis' statement, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said, ``I think it's very dangerous to make terrorism a political issue, especially when you're talking about specific episodes. Vice President Bush, who has said repeatedly he supported Reagan's Iran initiative but was involved with few details, was campaigning in South Carolina today. But Dole, in Duluth, Minn., was suggesting Bush wasn't where he should have been. Minnesota and South Dakota, the next two events on the long road to the 1988 presidential nominations, vote on Tuesday. ``We're ready to do well here tomorrow. We're here to play,'' Dole told supporters in Duluth today. ``I don't know where George Bush is,'' Dole said. ``I didn't find him yesterday in Wyoming. Couldn't find him in South Dakota. Couldn't find him in Minnesota. Must be somewhere. And these are very important states. Later today we're going to send him a map of Minnesota so at least he gets a little idea where it is.'' Among the Democrats, Richard Gephardt, who also finished first in Iowa, is bidding for a strong showing in South Dakota's Democratic straw poll to give him a boost as the campaign moves toward the Super Tuesday showdown on March 8. The 4,067 Minnesota caucuses are the first step toward choosing 78 delegates to the Democratic National Convention, while on the Republican side caucus attendees will mark a non-binding straw ballot to express their presidential preference. In South Dakota's primary, Republican voters will determine allocation of 18 convention delegates, while the Democrats will hold a beauty contest ballot that will not have a binding effect on who gets the state's national convention delegates. Bush, faced with the potential of a repeat of the Iowa results in which Midwesterner Dole was a big winner, is concentrating on the South where he hopes to cripple the Kansas senator's effort. Dole is a strong favorite in South Dakota, while Minnesota is shaping up as a three-way fight between Dole, Rep. Jack Kemp of New York and former television evangelist Pat Robertson. Dukakis, winner of the New Hampshire Democratic presidential primary, is campaigning hard in both these upper Midwest states in an effort to prove he can win support outside his native New England. After an appearance at the National Governors Association meeting in Washington, including a session with President Reagan, Dukakis was flying to Minnesota to campaign. On his way into the White House for a black-tie dinner Sunday night, Dukakis quipped, ``I'm just looking the place over, that's all.'' Asked where he hoped to be next year, Dukakis replied, ``I hope right here.' Gephardt, who has made tough action to correct trade imbalances a cornerstone of his campaign, got a blow from his House colleagues when words came out they planned to scuttle his legislation that would impose sanctions on countries that maintain large trade surpluses with the United States through unfair practices. ``We're going to dump it because it's bad policy,'' said Rep. Sam Gibbons, D-Fla., chairman of the Trade subcommittee of the House Ways and Means Committee. ``I'm going to fight for my amendment,'' said Gephardt, when told of the plan. Much of the sniping between presidential rivals was being done by long distance. Sen. Albert Gore Jr. of Tennessee, who made little effort in Iowa and not much more in New Hampshire while pursuing a Southern strategy for the Democratic nomination, was interviewed on the NBC show ``Meet the Press'' on Sunday and got in jabs at both Dukakis and Gephardt. The senator attacked Gephardt for shifting positions. ``It's not a case of just having one or two or three issues where he has changed 180 degrees,'' said Gore. ``There is a long, long list of issues.'' Turning to Dukakis, Gore said the governor has not had ``a single day's experience in foreign policy.'' Dukakis' spokesman Leslie Dach quickly retorted that ``Al Gore's never had a day of experience balancing a budget or building an economy.'' Gephardt was attacking Dukakis in ads running in South Dakota that criticize the Massachusetts governor for not supporting farm legislation sponsored by Gephardt and Iowa Sen. Tom Harkin. The ads also take a shot at Dukakis for once suggesting in Iowa that farmers ought to consider diversifying into such crops as Belgian endive. The ads drew retorts from Dukakis supporters in both Minnesota and South Dakota. ``A new low in South Dakota presidential politics,'' said State Sen. Roger McKellips, a co-chairman of Dukakis' South Dakota campaign. After his surprising second-place finish in the Iowa caucuses, Robertson was considered a strong contender in Minnesota where caucus organization is once again important. The former evangelist was in Spartanburg, S.C., on Sunday and told a crowd of about 4,000 at a church dedication that ``the problem facing America is not a government problem but a moral problem.''
AP901026-0115 	X	The Town Council has resigned to protest reports its members are suspected of ties with the Mafia. The councilmen followed the lead of the mayor, Paolo Scarna. He quit after a nephew was suspected of killing a judge last month who was ruling on whether purported Mafia members should be kept under house arrest, news reports said Friday. The resignations of the 32 council members came amid reports that police were investigating local politicians for possible links with organized crime. The town of 25,000 people, one of the poorest in Sicily, is in the province of Agrigento, an area that over the last few years has seen many slayings linked to the mob, including the murder of two anti-Mafia magistrates. Italy's top anti-Mafia fighter, Magistrate Domenico Sica, has looked into possible Mafia activity in the town. In Palermo, meanwhile, officials announced on Friday that police have arrested 12 people suspected of drug-trafficking and money-laundering. The arrests came in a nationwide sweep that began Thursday night and involved searches of houses and business offices in Palermo, Rome, Milan and the northern cities of Como and Asti, police officials said. Those arrested were held for investigation of suspected organized crime ties that involved drug dealing and money laundering. Investigators said they were aided by the testimony of a former mobster-turned-informer and by the discovery in January of a ledger that police say contained entries on Mafia financial transactions. The ledger was found in the house of a fugitive suspected Mafia boss. The drugs appeared to have moved directly from Turkey to Sicily and the drug profits appeared to have been laundered through Swiss banks, the Italian news agency AGI reported.
AP880325-0205 	X	The active-duty strength of the nation's military services declined in February from both the previous month and the year-earlier period, the Pentagon said Thursday. As of Feb. 29, the Army, Navy, Marine Corps and Air Force had 2,163,193 men and women on active duty, down 2,625 from Jan. 31 and a decrease of 8,914 from the Feb. 28, 1987, tally. It is not unusual for military strength to swing up and down on a monthly basis during the year, primarily because of differences in the flow of new recruits. The strength totals are expected to vary even more widely than normal this year, though, because the Pentagon is reducing its active-duty strength in a budget-cutting move. According to the latest ``Military Strength'' assessment, three of the four armed services reported personnel reductions in February. The Marine Corps reported 198,231 men and women on active duty, down just 12 from January. The Air Force had 603,599 on active duty, down 975; and the Army listed 776,415, down 2,308. The Navy, meantime, reported an increase of 670 personnel in February, with 584,948 on active duty at the end of the month. The Marine Corps and Air Force reported declines in strength compared with Feb. 28, 1987, while the Navy and Army reported slightly increases.
AP901017-0132 	X	President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's plan for switching to a free-market economy backs away from a 500-day timetable, and Boris N. Yeltsin, leader of the Russian republic, said it was doomed to fail within six months. Gorbachev's 66-page blueprint, delivered to members of the national legislature Tuesday, is at least the fourth in a confusing and complicated series of plans for salvaging the failing economy. ``Another endeavor is thus being made to perpetuate the system hated by the people,'' Yeltsin said Tuesday. ``The new program is a catastrophe which will break out within the first few months.'' ``If the ... Parliament approves today's uncompromising program, it will take less than six months to realize that the chosen road is another blunder.'' A text of Yeltsin's remarks to the Russian Federation's legislature was published today in Sovietskaya Rossiya, the Russian Communist newspaper. Gorbachev's plan would give the 15 Soviet republics sweeping new powers to run the nation's economy, free many prices from government regulation and allow private ownership of businesses. It sets no timetable for the transition, but notes other nations have accomplished similar goals in 1{ to two years. Gorbachev is to present his plan to the Supreme Soviet national legislature on Friday, and the 542 members could vote on it as early as Saturday. Parliamentary committees began studying the proposals today. Yeltsin, president of the Russian republic, and the federation's other leaders have endorsed a radical plan for scrapping Communist central planning for a market-based economy in 500 days. Yeltsin said the Russian republic could go ahead with that program on Nov. 1, setting up its own currency, customs service and army. He acknowledged this would be difficult and costly, even for the biggest and wealthiest of the 15 Soviet republics, but said: ``If we show indecision in such a situation, we will lose the voters' trust and respect.'' ``If we procrastinate and put off (the reform) further, there will be nothing to reform because the economy will simply fall to pieces,'' he said. Yeltsin said Gorbachev's program, if adopted, would increase the national budget deficit to about $528 billion. ``The consumer market inevitably will be swamped by a shower of paper (money) and prices may grow dozens of times,'' he said. The plan Yeltsin has endorsed is named after its chief architect, economist Stanislav Shatalin. It differs from Gorbachev's plan in several key respects. The Shatalin plan suggests selling factories to private owners, breaking up collective farms and returning land to peasants, but the Gorbachev plan drops a clear commitment to private ownership of land. It says only that republic authorities will decide conditions for giving land to people for agriculture. The Shatalin plan would also gradually end all state control on prices. Under the Gorbachev plan, the government would still set prices in 1992 on bread, meat, dairy products and a few other staples. Yeltsin said the Gorbachev plan was an attempt ``to preserve the administrative-bureaucratic system.'' The proposal caps an intensive three-week effort by Gorbachev and top economists to resolve fundamental differences over how to change a system that fails to provide adequate food, shelter and services for the country's 285 million people. Differences among competing economic plans have touched on the very underpinnings of Soviet communism: socialist property, collective labor and state ownership of all land. ``People's lives are becoming more difficult, their interest in labor is falling, their faith in the future is crumbling,'' the Gorbachev plan says. It says the long lines in which Soviet shoppers must stand daily are a ``shame,'' and acknowledges rising food prices, overcrowded apartments and empty store shelves. But it hesitates to move ahead too quickly with reform, stating: ``The experience of applying stabilization programs in other countries ... shows that such a period can take about 1{ to two years.'' Gorbachev's compromise package, however, borrows heavily from the Shatalin plan in giving republics more economic power. Under Gorbachev's plan, republics would gain control of most of the resources on their territory. After delegating much economic power to republics, businesses and individuals, the central government would concentrate on defense, energy, highways, railroads, space exploration and communications. Gorbachev originally supported the Shatalin plan which was to have gone into effect Oct. 1, ``but the sinking union (national) government put pressure on the president, and he again changed his mind,'' Yeltsin said.
AP900304-0071 	X	Angel Wallenda said goodbye to the tightwire Sunday night, joining her husband and 3-year-old son for one last performance before an operation she hopes will arrest the cancer that claimed her leg. Steven Wallenda joined his wife and their precocious toddler Steven II to the tune of ``Angel of the Morning'' on the tightwire that has brought the family fame for decades. ``You have to overcome a certain fear,'' Mrs. Wallenda, 21, said after the performance in Mansfield, where the family lives. ``And I've done that with both the wire and the cancer.'' In 1987, Mrs. Wallenda was diagnosed with bone cancer, and doctors were forced to amputate her right leg and fit her with a prosthesis. The cancer spread to her lungs, and she is scheduled to undergo further surgery March 20 at City of Hope National Medical Center in Duarte, Calif. ``I'm glad I got to do it,'' she said of Sunday's performance. This month's surgery will end her career as an aerialist. Her husband said he and their son will continue the performing tradition. Ticket sales for the performance, which draw about 1,000 people to Mansfield University, raised more than $3,500 for her medical bills, supplemented by some $4,500 from a local Vietnam veterans' group. Steven Wallenda is a veteran of that war. Shaky at first Sunday night, Mrs. Wallenda steadied during the latter part of her walk across the 30-foot steel rope, followed closely by her husband. A later act featured Steven II in a harness riding on his father's shoulders. Wallenda traces his family's tightwire heritage to the 1600s. The most famous of the Wallenda acrobats, ``Karl the Great,'' died after a 1978 fall during a performance in Puerto Rico. Steven Wallenda II is the last male performer born with the Wallenda name and one of the few direct descendants of the original acrobats. The elder Wallenda said he hoped Steven II would follow in his careful footsteps, but, ``It's up to him.''
AP880813-0186 	X	Diana Lewis works for the Police Department, but her truck has been forced into a life of crime. Her silver 1979 truck was stolen in early July and again this week from the same bus parking lot. Both times, police say, the truck was apparently used as a getaway vehicle by the same man to rob two banks. Enough's enough, says Ms. Lewis, who has transferred to a new police job and won't park her truck in the lot any more. ``The odds of becoming a victim around here seem to be getting smaller,'' said Ms. Lewis, a civilian employee for the detective bureau and a part-time reserve officer. Ms. Lewis found the abandoned truck herself after it was used in a July 6 robbery. Officers found it a few hours after it was used in a bank robbery Wednesday. If the last robbery wasn't enough, it also got a paint job. A dye package planted in the stolen cash exploded inside the truck's cab, painting it red.
AP880328-0263 	X	The federal fund that insures deposits in commercial banks could suffer a loss in 1988 for the first time in its 54-year history, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman L. William Seidman said Monday. Seidman said a loss to the insurance fund, if any, would depend on how much the FDIC spends to resolve the problems of First RepublicBank of Dallas, which earlier this month received a $1 billion infusion of government aid. The deterioration of Texas banks, hard hit by losses on real estate and energy loans, has raised concern about the health of the insurance fund, which backs deposits of up to $100,000 in 13,700 commercial banks. Speaking at a luncheon meeting with reporters, Seidman said it is too soon to say with certainty what the cost of restoring First RepublicBank to health will be. But, he said the $5 billion to $6 billion estimates of some are ``far higher than anything that is likely to be required.'' He said the $1.7 billion cost of the 1984 bailout of Continental Illinois Bank & Trust Co., which was about the same size as First RepublicBank, ``is the best guide we have.'' The FDIC's initial outlay on First RepublicBank could be higher than the ultimate cost, just as it was in the case of Continental when the agency spent $4.5 billion, Seidman said. However, he said the FDIC now usually tries to structure bank rescues so that the initial cash cost is close to the ultimate cost. If the First RepublicBank cost is in the $1.7 billion range and if banks fail this year at about the same rate as last year, then ``it is possible we will have a loss in 1988,'' he said. Last year, a post-Depression record of 184 banks failed. Forty-four have failed so far this year and Seidman said he expected the 1988 total to be roughly the same as 1987. As failures have increased, the steady growth of the FDIC fund _ from $4.6 billion in 1970, $11.6 billion in 1980 to $17.9 billion in 1985 _ has slowed. The fund finished 1986 with $18.2 billion and 1987 with $18.3 billion. Seidman said the 1988 loss, if it occurs, would be ``something under 5 percent ... certainly under ... $1 billion.'' He said he did not see any prospect for what he termed a substantial loss, one approaching 20 percent, or about $3.5 billion. He contrasted the relatively healthy condition of the FDIC fund with that of the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp., which insures deposits in 3,170 savings institutions. FSLIC was insolvent until last fall when money began flowing from congressionally-authorized bond sales. It has had to keep bankrupt S&Ls open because it lacked the money to pay off depositors.
AP881020-0199 	X	The University of North Dakota is under pressure from Jewish leaders to educate students about the Holocaust with some of the $5 million it was promised by a casino owner who collects Nazi memorabilia. Ralph Engelstad, owner of the Imperial Palace Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas and a 1954 graduate of UND, pledged the money to support the school's hockey program. Engelstad has been under fire since it was revealed earlier this month that he had amassed a large collection of Nazi war equipment and twice held theme parties celebrating Nazi leader Adolf Hitler's birthday. Engelstad has apologized for the parties and offered to give his collection to the National Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington. Morton Ryweck, regional director for the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith, said Wednesday that Engelstad's collection and parties had ``trivialized the Holocaust.'' Engelstad's apology would mean more if he would rededicate part of his $5 million endowment to education on the evils of Nazism and the Holocaust, Ryweck said in a letter to UND President Thomas Clifford. ``In the future, there would be fewer people ignorant about it, and fewer people who are apt to trivialize it, as was done in Las Vegas with these parties,'' Ryweck said. Mara Sapon-Shevin, a member of the Grand Forks Jewily's hands. Kraft died in 1953.
AP900811-0148 	X	Two very American responses to a potential oil shortage have emerged from the Iraqi threat. One is to have ``somebody do something'' about it, and the other is to do something about it oneself. In the first instance, elected officials are urged to take action against alleged price exploiters through the courts or legislative bodies, the notion being that sellers should be forced to serve consumers. The process hasn't worked well in the past. If there are no profits to be made, oil shippers, wholesalers, refiners, distributors and sellers won't remain in business. The flow will slow and the pump lines will grow. In the other instance, people examine their own situation and decide what action they can take. They recognize that while high prices or a shortage will hurt them, they can lessen the damage by conserving. Conservation worked in the past, in the 1970s, and the American economy and all those who contribute to it are better off. It raised the quality of homes and automobiles, not to mention the effect on the quality of the air we breathe. It worked well for a decade. More efficient and cleaner combustion engines were developed, doubling the miles per gallon of automobiles. More effective insulation materials were developed, making homes snug with less fuel used. The development of solar power, cleanest of all, was accelerated. Idle water power was put to use. Heat from machinery and electricity was reused rather than vented. Progress was made in the safe use of nuclear power, and while environmental fears thwarted full usage and eventually stalled the program, the advances that were made might be relied on again some day. Lives as well as gasoline were saved when the national speed limit was reduced to 55 miles an hour. In spite of higher prices, some people even reduced their bills by agreeing to car pool their way to work each day. Americans all but abandoned much of the conservation effort during the 1980s. Young, innovative solar power companies went out of business. Utilities abandoned nuclear power plans. The speed limit and thermostats went up. But the effort has shown that individuals could find value in what appeared to be a total negative, and some of those options are still available. Many people can drive less, and more slowly and efficiently. Some can join car pools. Most can turn down thermostats and be healthier for it. They can avoid paying prices that are out of line with those of other sellers. In a business sense, alternative energy sources still represent a private-sector investment opportunity. For the government, the latest crisis could provide an opportunity for measures reducing U.S. dependency on imports. Experience shows that any economic crisis an have important and lasting benefits for individuals, companies and governments. Recessions create conditions for expansions, for example, and fuel shortages lead to fuel-saving. It suggests that initiative in the face of crisis might be more effective than complaining to elected officials, some of whom might be more interested than the oil refiners and retailers in exploiting the situation.
AP900102-0030 	X	Britain last year basked in its warmest`weather since records were first kept 330 years`ago, the Meteorological Office said today. The mean temperature in central England rose to 51.2 degrees in 1989, breaking the previous record of 50.9 degrees set in 1949. Meteorological Office spokesman Barry Parker said last year was the sunniest since 1909 and the driest`since 1976. ``While the maximum temperatures were not as high as 1976, the summer many of us remember with glee, the weather was consistent all the way through the year,'' Parker said, adding that April was the only month considered very cold. The government's records, compiled since 1659, show the winter of 1989 was the 20th century's warmest, the spring ranked 10th warmest`and the summer and fall were the seventh warmest this centuryn The mean temperature indexl which takes a sampling of weather stations`in central England, is considered the most reliable national weather guide. Earlier this year, the London Weather`Center announced that 1989 was the sunniest this century. The center said the capitol sizzled in 839.5 hours`of sunshine in May, June and July.
AP901210-0122 	X	A former high-ranking state senator was sentenced Monday to 12 years in federal prison for corruption uncovered in an FBI sting in which he sold influence for campaign contributions. Paul Carpenter stood silently when U.S. District Judge Edward Garcia sentenced him, declining an offer to speak. Carpenter, a silver-haired 62-year-old Democrat from suburban Los Angeles, was convicted in September of racketeering, extortion and conspiracy. The charges followed an undercover operation at the state capital. In the sting, an FBI agent posing as a businessman paid Carpenter $20,000 in campaign contributions to get a bill through the Legislature. At Carpenter's trial, other instances were cited of his shaking down lobbyists for campaign money. Carpenter, who must surrender to authorities by Jan. 7, was also ordered to repay $20,000 he received from an FBI undercover agent in the sting operation. ``It's a case of proven acceptance of bribery money and extortion of money in the form of political contributions,'' said the judge, who called the evidence against Carpenter ``overwhelming.'' The judge also observed that the former lawmaker felt no remorse. He said Carpenter's punishment was intended to deter others. Carpenter will be eligible for parole in four years. Carpenter's attorney, Gerard Hinckley, said he would appeal the sentence. A former Senate Democratic Caucus chairman, Carpenter was for several years one of that body's top fundraisers. After 12 years in the Senate, he was elected in 1986 to the Board of Equalization. His sentencing removes Carpenter from the powerful state tax board. Carpenter was the second elected state official snagged in the five-year FBI probe. Joseph Montoya was still a state senator when he was convicted in February of racketeering, extortion and money laundering. He is serving a 6{-year prison sentence. The investigation is continuing. So far four other people have pleaded guilty to charges that flowed from it - two former legislative aides and two former county law enforcers. Another two former legislative aides are awaiting trial. Most of the charges against Carpenter related to his dealings with John Brennan, an FBI agent who posed as Alabama businessman Jack Gordon. The agent paid Carpenter $20,000 in campaign contributions as a payoff for Carpenter's help in getting a bill through the Senate to finance a fictitious shrimp business. Carpenter said he told an aide he wouldn't take the money unless he was assured that he wouldn't have to do anything in return. However, the next day, in a tape-recorded conversation with Brennan, Carpenter promised to serve as the bill's problem-solver and to ``stroke'' the state treasurer to remove opposition to the measure. The bill was approved by the Legislature but vetoed by Gov. George Deukmejian, who was tipped off to the FBI investigation.
AP880818-0299 	X	Stock prices ended slightly higher Thursday after a dull day of trading on the London Stock Exchange, as the market failed to take direction from an eagerly awaited string of British economic reports. Instead, trading activity focused on selected issues, especially those involved in takeover situations, dealers said. The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index was up 3.0 points, or 0.2 percent, at 1,833.9, its best level for the day. The index moved in a narrow range throughout the day, losing at most 4.2 points shortly after the start of dealings. But shares rose late in the day on the back of early gains on Wall Street..
AP880915-0128 	X	The Reagan administration's top health official said Thursday he will not take a position on a proposed White House ban on using intentionally aborted fetal tissue for medical treatment until a National Institutes of Health advisory committee has completed its review of the issue. Health and Human Services Secretary Otis R. Bowen told reporters that _ while he remains personally opposed to abortion _ ``there are some good pros and some good cons'' about using aborted fetal tissue for experimental treatment for Parkinson's and other diseases. He said ``a task force of the best minds going'' was studing the issue at a three-day NIH meeting and that he had no intention of taking a position until the review is completed, probably not for several weeks. Bowen said he could not predict whether the issue will be resolved during the last few months of the Reagan administration even though a White House official, Gary Bauer, is pushing for quick implementation of an outright ban. ``Inasmuch as abortions are legal, being unable to utilize the tissue ... would result in the waste of a resource that is livesaving and curing for several diseases,'' Bowen told reporters at a breakfast meeting. He spoke at about the same time the NIH panel he referred to was opening a second day of hearings to focus on moral and ethical issues. Bowen said it was his judgment that ``we can't in a good common sense way come up with an answer until we hear'' from the advisory panel. ``If I had Parkinson's I think I would want some of those (transplanted) cells,'' said Bowen, emphasizing that such a personal observation does not eliminate the broader ethical questions. He made clear he did not feel rushed to recommend an administration position even though a Bauer memo disclosed in news accounts last week instructed Bowen to make his comments by last Friday. ``We have not responded,'' Bowen said. ``I do not know whether it was a direct order from the president and I don't know that I will know unless someone tells me.'' Procedurally, the special NIH committee will make its recommendations to a standing NIH advisory committee Dec. 1 and that panel in turn will make a recommendation to NIH Director James B. Wyngaarden. The NIH director reports to Bowen through Dr. Robert E. Windom who ordered a temporary ban on federally financed fetal tissue research pending consideration of moral and ethical issues. Father Don McCarthy, a Roman Catholic church leader from Cincinnati, told the NIH committee the issue draws a clear distinction between induced abortions and natural abortions. ``One might say that the American public becomes accomplices after the fact for these induced abortions'' if its institutions embrace policies that could tend to assign a medical value to having an abortion, he said. Several witnesses and committee members used the term ``custom pregnancy'' as short hand for the concern that a woman might become pregnant just to produce a fetus for abortion and subsequent research use _ either for financial reward or in hopes of helping a sick relative. ``I don't think people are as callous about abortion as that premise suggests,'' said Thomas H. Murray, director of the Center for Biomedical Ethics at the Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland. ``If we get to that point, I'm deeply worried.'' Murray said he was convinced that guidelines could be drawn to insure that a woman's decision to have an abortion would be kept totally separate from the decision to allow the remains to be used for research. Robert J. Levine of the Yale University School of Medicine told the committee his institution has drawn its own guidelines that would exclude transplanting the tissue of an fetus into a relative of the mother. He said that was done out of safety considerations _ that whatever caused the disease in the relative might somehow be present in the offspring's genes _ but coincidentally also serves to negate concern about ``custom pregnancies.'' Ezra C. Davidson Jr., head of the obstetrics and gynecology department at King-Drew Medical Center in Los Angeles, said he was distressed that some committee members seemed to underestimate ``the intensity of the drive for (many) women to have abortions to resolve a very complex set of problems'' without any encouragement from researchers or others. ``I just wish I had the capacity to translate the reality of that to the people in this room,'' he said.
AP880229-0243 	X	Wherever it exists, rent control is an issue that splits public opinion, penetrating deep beneath individuals' mere political instincts into their philosophical marrow. It is viewed as the most effective protection the poor have against greedy landlords. It is seen by others as a violation of private property rights by governments that should, constitutionally, be protecting them. The issue attracts as much emotion as reason. In every city where it exists, it is defended as needed to protect the poor _ and simultaenously damned as the cause of inferior housing, and too little housing, for the poor. Never dormant, the issue has been heated to a boil again by a Feb. 24 Supreme Court ruling that seems to reaffirm a municipality's right to consider a tenant's finances before allowing or disallowing a rent increase. In the specific case, Pennel v. City of San Jose, Calif., the court upheld the constitutionality of an ordinance in which a city official would deem whether or not a tenant could afford an increase of more than 8 percent. Under the ordinance, if the city hearing officer so ruled, the allowable rent increase could be rolled back to 5 percent, plus an amount needed for improvements, maintenance and rehabilitation. Landlords boiled over, since most have for years contended that their industry has been singled out for exceptional treatment, that treatment being an unconstitutional taking of private property _ that is, theirs. But, as usual, even the institution of the Surpeme Court couldn't deal with the issue without splitting sharply. Chief Justice William Rehnquist wrote the majority opinion, but Justice Antonin Scalia wrote a scathing critique. Said Rehnquist: ``We have long recognized that a legitimate and rational goal of price or rate regulation is the protection of consumer welfare.'' But in Scalia's view, such regulation permits unfair transfers of wealth. Moreover, said Scalia, these wealth transfers have added dimensions that make them cause for additional concern. They are, for instance, relatively invisible, he said. They have ``relative immunity from normal democratic processes.'' And as a consequence, they allow government to subsidize a social group ``off budget.'' The National Association of Realtors filed a brief that added a practical dimension. Rent control, it said, it inherently irrational, since it exacerbates rather than relieves a shortage of affordable housing. The NAR can support its contentions with independent studies; it is no secret to anyone familiar with rent control that it scares apartment builders away and can cause landlords to abandon properties. Those who defend rent control contend that theirs is the best way since, as they see it, those members of society who need protection are granted it, while landlord interests are secured by regular and fair, albeit limited, increases. But William North, NAR executive vice president, states that the court has ``created the ultimate oxymoron: compulsory charity.'' Rental hardship cases, he argues, are a responsibility of the community, not just of landlords.
AP901212-0023 	X	Meals are being shipped by the millions, but rivets are scarce. New uniforms and desert boots are in production - and in demand. Four months after President Bush ordered U.S. troops to the Persian Gulf, sustaining the still-growing deployment is proving to be an extremely complex, and costly, endeavor. More than $1.2 billion has been spent on food, clothing and medical supplies alone, never mind the millions more on weapons, parts and other materiel needed for the desert deployment. The operation is providing at least a temporary boom to many suppliers who were expecting less military business this year. Instead of closing plants or cutting shifts, several food and clothing suppliers are adding workers or offering overtime to meet Pentagon pleas for quick delivery. A sampling of the orders: -113 million meals, including 74.4 million Meals Ready-to-Eat, the basic field ration, 10.8 new entrees, including pot roast and beef sukiyaki, and 14 million new ``lunch bucket'' entrees to add chili and macaroni and cheese to the menu. -4.8 million pounds of sugar, 3.2 million pounds of flour and 1.4 million pounds of coffee, contracts worth a combined $5.6 million. -547,000 sundry packs, at a cost of $194 million, to supply the troops with razors, shaving cream, toothpaste and the like. -1.5 million tubes of lip balm, costing $278,000. -796,008 pairs of desert and hot weather boots, a $31.6 million deal. -379,375 cans of foot powder; 165,000 pairs of sunglasses; 371,000 wool sweaters; and 3.3 million desert camouflage uniforms, just one of several big-ticket clothing buys. -More than 600,000 armor-piercing rounds for the Army's Bradley Fighting Vehicles, a contract worth $14.3 million to GenCorp's Aerojet Ordnance Division. And buying is just half the task - the Pentagon has to get the goods 7,000 miles to Saudi Arabia and other Mideast points as it masses a 60-day or better supply cushion. The scope of the supply effort is giving pause to some military planners, who worry the inevitability of sustainment problems will be used to advance arguments for early use of force if Iraqi President Saddam Hussein ignores a Jan. 15 deadline to end his occupation of Kuwait. The operation is also expensive, and getting more costly by the week as stocks now filling Desert Shield requisitions run low, forcing the Pentagon to issue new contracts. So far, there have been only isolated shortages, officials say. Roughly 90 percent of parts orders are being filled from existing stocks, according to Defense Department figures. Scarce items rush-ordered from suppliers include rivets, electrical cable and strapping used to hold down pallets on military transport planes. Most orders are shipped by sea, but if a unit in the Mideast needs something in a hurry, it can turn to ``Desert Express'' - an emergency next-day delivery service the Air Force is running to Saudi Arabia from two U.S. bases. To date, ``Desert Express'' cargo has mostly been parts in short supply for tanks and planes, particularly Vietnam-era F4-G ``Wild Weasel'' anti-radar jets. The overall air leg of the supply line, operated by the Military Airlift Command, has made nearly 7,000 missions to the Mideast since August, carrying more than 200,000 passengers and 480 million pounds of cargo. The Navy's Sealift Command has delivered 28 billion pounds of dry cargo and nearly 6 billion pounds of fuel. As it orders more food, the Pentagon is trying to spice up the menu as a morale booster. That initiative meant a $44.6 million contract to George A. Hormel and Co. for sukiyaki, pot roast, spaghetti, lasagna and other dinners, and a $20.8 million deal for Dial Corp. for beef stew, chili, macaroni and cheese and other lunches. Other big beneficiaries are the Pentagon's clothing suppliers, who are rushing production of uniforms, the new line of desert boots and chemical protective clothing. Overall, more than 83,000 requisitions for $411 million in clothing have been processed for Operation Desert Shield.
AP881013-0213 	X	Researchers who studied ancient Chinese chronicles of solar eclipses found that a day is now seven hundredths of a second longer than it was nearly 4,000 years ago because the Earth is spinning more slowly. The length of a day ``just keeps getting longer and longer,'' said Kevin Pang, who conducted the study as an astronomer at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Just as a spinning ice skater slows down by extending her arms, Earth's rotation on its axis slows as tidal interactions make the moon orbit Earth more quickly and become more distant from it, he said Wednesday. ``Four billion years ago, the moon was only one-third as far away as it is now, and the day was only eight hours long at the time,'' said Pang, whose study will be published soon in the British journal Vistas in Astronomy. Pang and his co-authors determined that, compared to today, the length of a day was 2.2 hundredths of a second shorter in A.D. 532, 4.2 hundredths of a second shorter in 899 B.C., and seven hundredths of a second shorter in 1876 B.C. Other studies have shown Earth's rotation varies slightly over time because the oceans and atmosphere produce drag on the planet's topography, and because molten rock within the Earth sloshes against solid rock to produce a similar drag. Knowing how Earth's rotation rate changes ``helps you understand things like the interaction between the ocean, solid Earth and atmosphere, and tells you something about the interior of the Earth,'' Pang said. While ancient Chinese annals report thousands of eclipses, the researchers limited themselves to those that occurred at sunrise or sunset, allowing them to compute the time of the eclipses. Knowing the times, along with the fact the eclipses were visible from China, the scientists were able to calculate how much Earth's rotation has slowed since the dates the eclipses occurred. For example, had the day always been 24 hours long, the 899 B.C. eclipse would have been seen in the Middle East instead of China, Pang explained. Pang's calculations of the rate at which Earth's rotation is slowing are consistent with previous studies, but extend further back in time. The oldest Arabian and Babylonian records of solar eclipses date to about 700 B.C. Pang's findings on the 899 B.C. eclipse first were reported in early 1987. In that study, he and his colleagues studied ancient Chinese chronicles, called the Bamboo Annals, which mentioned a time when ``the day dawned twice.'' By performing a computer simulation of the history of the Earth's rotation around the sun, they determined the phrase meant that the moon eclipsed the sun just after dawn on April 21, 899 B.C. That let them figure out the Earth's rotation rate at the time. In the new NASA-funded study, they were able to compute the time of the 532 and the 1876 B.C. eclipses. Some people incorrectly assume Earth's gravity pulls the moon closer to Earth, but that is not the case, Pang said.
AP900330-0013 	X	Heavyweight champion James ``Buster'' Douglas recalled his family's struggle with poverty as he urged congressional support for a program to help the poor pay heating bills. The 232-pound boxer was the first witness Thursday before a Labor and Human Resources subcommittee. Wearing a starched white shirt and a black suit with a white hankerchief in the lapel, he read a two-page statement and answered questions from panelists. Douglas did not mention the Bush administration's proposed 25 percent cut for the 1991 fiscal year in the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, which served 5.9 million households last year. Instead, he gave the Subcommittee on Children, Families, Drugs and Alcoholism a personal account of poverty in his hometown of Columbus, Ohio, and ended with a plea to ``do everything you can.'' ``I was 15 and we had a pretty terrible winter that year and we were behind on our gas bill,'' he said. A local aid program helped get the family through. ``I think that that had a great deal to do with me becoming heavyweight champion of the world,'' he said. ``In hard times, we had support.''
AP880703-0008 	X	A policeman who was supposed to be dead turned up alive and was arrested along with his wife and son after they tried to collect $5,400 in benefits, the United News of India said Sunday. The news agency reported that Constable Ganesh Singh, from the town of Balaghat in Madhya Pradesh state, went on leave two weeks before his retirement June 1. A few days later, his son told authorities Singh had died of a heart attack. A sum of 70,000 rupees, about $5,400, was granted to the constable's family because the man died in service. But before his family was able to cash in, a police officer spotted Singh strolling around the Balaghat railway station. The constable confessed he, his wife and son had plotted his ``death'' because benefits for a policeman dying in service were higher than normal retirement pensions.
AP880520-0028 	X	George Bush is looking to a powerful ally on Pennsylvania Avenue for help in seeing that his most valuable campaign asset, the current 65-month economic recovery, will last at least until Election Day. The ally is not President Reagan but a political supporter who occupies the building next door, Treasury Secretary James A. Baker III. And some economists contend Baker may be giving the vice president more than just advice. Treasury officials won't comment on the speculation, but some economists point to recent activity in international markets as evidence that Baker has been leaning hard on major U.S. trading partners to help elect Bush and other Republicans. These actions include recent intervention in currency markets by other central banks and heavy foreign purchases of U.S. Treasury securities, particularly by Japanese investors _ measures that can help stabilize the shaky dollar, minimize inflation and help keep the economy on an even keel. A leading proponent of such a view is David Hale, chief economist of Kemper Financial Services in Chicago. He cites the spending of huge sums by Japan and other countries to stabilize the dollar, at prices higher than investors are willing to pay, as a form of ``political insurance'' for Bush. Foreign allies ``don't want to see a big discontinuity in U.S. economic policies. It's not so much that they're against Dukakis and for Bush. They just want stability in the United States in an election year,'' Hale said in an interview. ``Two years ago, Washington wanted a lower dollar. Now Washington wants a strong dollar, at least until the election. Because Baker is fearful that a dollar decline could lead to another stock market crash,'' Hale said. Although a weak dollar can help ease the trade deficit by making U.S. goods more competitive, it can also reignite inflation and drive foreign investors away from Treasury securities and other dollar-based investments, threatening the financing of the government's huge budget deficit. Foreign-exchange reserves held by the world's central banks last year grew to $790 billion from $559 billion, and Hale estimates that two-thirds of this increase comes from efforts by central banks to support the dollar. The Bank of Japan reportedly has earmarked another $60 billion to spend this year to help prop up the dollar against the yen, after expanding its foreign-exchange holdings by $40 billion in 1987. At the same time, foreign investors have become the single largest buyer of Treasury securities. This helps underwrite the U.S. budget deficit, since selling Treasury bonds and bills is the government's primary way of financing its red ink spending. Analysts estimate that Japanese investors alone bought as much as half of last week's sale of $8.5 billion in new 30-year Treasury bonds. Analysts have speculated that the government of Japan persuaded them to do so, perhaps as a favor to Baker. If Japanese and other foreign investors were to withdraw their stake in Treasury securities, interest rates would be forced up sharply, possibly triggering a recession. An economic downturn at this point could spell disaster for Bush's presidential efforts. And while most economists don't see a recession likely in the months ahead, many forecasters are expressing new fears about an escalation in both inflation and interest rates. Bush has been wielding the recovery _ a peacetime record _ as a major campaign weapon. While he scoffed at Reagan's policies as ``voodoo economics'' in 1980, he now regularly extols them on campaign stops as the ``American miracle.'' The similarity in phrasing to the ``Massachusetts miracle'' trumpeted by Democratic front-runner Michael Dukakis is no coincidence. Bush strategists claim the vice president will launch a major assault on Dukakis' claim after the party conventions this summer, seeking to demonstrate that the job-creation claimed by Dukakis as governor is merely an outgrowth of Reagan-Bush economic policies. However, for the strategy to work, the economy must continue to perform vigorously in the months to come. Last week's report that the U.S. trade deficit shrank by $4 billion between February and March provided some needed market-driven stimulus to the ailing dollar. However stock and bond markets slumped as investors worried that rising U.S. exports without an accompanying reduction in imports could fan inflation. Baker is an early Bush supporter and is expected at some point to assume a key role in managing Bush's general election campaign. Baker said Thursday, ``For now I'm staying at the Treasury Department.'' Bush lieutenants have suggested that, at least for the time being, Baker may be more useful to Bush there. ``It may be more prudent to seek his advice as a Cabinet member'' rather than bringing him into the campaign, said Bush's staff chief Craig Fuller. Treasury officials refused to comment on allegations that Baker was using his influence to try to persuade Japanese, West German and other governments to take steps that would promote an economic environment conducive to a Bush victory. But one official, who demanded anonymity, said that trying to keep the United States out of a recession does not exactly run contrary to Baker's role as Treasury secretary _ regardless of which candidate it might help.
AP900926-0123 	X	Kevin Locke said Wednesday that he's trying to preserve an ancient Sioux tradition - the courting flute. The 36-year-old musician, storyteller and Plains hoop dancer, is one of 13 folk artists receiving $5,000 awards this year from the National Endowment for the Arts for their success in preserving the nation's heritage. The artists - including a mariachi band, a Michigan accordionist, a cowboy poet from Montana and a Hawaiian lei maker - gathered for a congressional reception at a Senate office building. They were selected from 197 people nominated for the national grant by their peers. The NEA has been making the awards since 1982. ``America's deep and varied traditional heritage is one of this nation's greatest treasures,'' said NEA Chairman John Frohnmayer. Locke carried the flute, a long wooden recorder fashioned from cedar with the mouthpiece made into the head of a bird, wrapped in cloth in a long leather tube slung across his shoulder. Locke was raised on the Standing Rock Indian Reservation in South Dakota by an elderly uncle who spoke only Lakota and learned the traditional courting songs from elders. By the 1960s, the tradition of the Plains and Woodlands Indian courting flute had been all but lost as the last musicians with the skill died off without passing it to a new generation. ``It is an important role,'' said Locke, who's working on a doctoral degree in education at the University of South Dakota. ``I see that they are a bridge between our ancestors and the people of today.'' The other artists honored were: Howard Armstrong, an Afro-American string band musician in Detroit; Natividad Cano, a mariachi musician from Monterey Park, Calif.; Giuseppe and Raffaela DeFranco, southern Italian musicians and dancers from Belleville, N.J.; Bun Em, a Cambodian silk weaver from Harrisburg, Pa.; Maude Kegg, an Indian beadworker from Onamia, Minn.; Marie McDonald, the lei maker from Waimea, Hawaii; cowboy poet Wallace McRae from Forsyth, Mont.; Art Moilanen, a Finnish accordionist from Mass City, Mich.; woodcarver Emilio Rosado from Utuado, Puerto Rico; Robert Spicer, a Dickson, Tenn., square dancer; and Doug Wallin, a Marshall, N.C., ballad singer.
AP900914-0077 	X	Relatives or guardians of brain-damaged people can order the removal of feeding tubes that keep them alive, the Florida Supreme Court said in a ruling hailed by ``right-to-die'' advocates. ``It reaffirms the rights of Floridians under our (state) constitution to make their own decisions about what will be done with their bodies,'' said Charlene Carres, a Tallahassee attorney for the American Civil Liberties Union. Roman Catholics, anti-abortion groups and other opponents did not immediately respond, saying they needed more time to review the ruling. The decision focused on an elderly woman who died last summer. Estelle Browning spent the last 2{ years of her life hooked up to feeding tubes that she had specified in a ``living will'' she didn't want. Mrs. Browning suffered permanent brain damage in a stroke and was left in a persistent vegetative state, unable to swallow or communicate. She was not comatose. Doris Herbert, Mrs. Browning's second cousin and only living relative, was named her guardian. Herbert sought permission to remove the tubes in 1988. The state fought the request and a trial court denied it, but a state appeals court said the Florida Constitution allowed for removal of the tubes and the issue was reviewed by the Supreme Court. ``We hold that, because Mrs. Browning was unable to exercise her constitutional right of privacy by reason of her medical condition, her guardian was authorized to exercise it for her,'' Justice Rosemary Barkett wrote. When people take ``the time and trouble'' to write ``living wills,'' express their wishes orally or appoint health-care surrogates, there's no need to go before a judge to get permission to carry out their wishes, the court ruled. Patricia Dore, a law professor at Florida State University who drafted the privacy clause added to the state constitution in 1980, said it was significant that the justices ruled there was no legal distinction between food and water supplied through tubes and other medical treatments, like respirators. Although it has no direct impact outside Florida, attorneys and advocates said other state courts could be influenced by the case. ``I think many, many state courts look to Florida for guidance on issues that affect the elderly,'' said George Felos, an attorney who represented Herbert. Florida's high court heard oral arguments in the case in January. Six months later, the U.S. Supreme Court said a Missouri couple could not order the removal of food and water keeping their 32-year-old comatose daughter alive. The daughter, Nancy Cruzan, had not left a living will. Her parents said they were certain she would prefer to die rather than live in a coma. In its split decision, the nation's high court said competent people have a right to refuse medical treatment.
AP880418-0265 	X	Five OPEC oil ministers will meet their counterparts from independent oil-producing countries April 26 in efforts to stabilize sagging oil prices, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries reported. An employee of OPEC's information secretariat said Monday both the meeting with non-OPEC countries and a subsequent extraordinary meeting of oil ministers from all 13 OPEC countries will take place at the group's headquarters. The second meeting will take place on April 28. Each session was originally planned for three days earlier. No reason was given Monday for the change. After five OPEC oil ministers met here on April 9, OPEC President Rilwanu Lukman, who is also Nigeria's oil minister, announced the upcoming talks to consider halting an oil price slide. Lukman and the oil ministers of Saudi Arabia, Algeria, Venezuela and Indonesia have invited at least seven non-OPEC oil producing nations to meet them on April 26. Big producers such as the Soviet Union, Britain and Norway are unlikely to be represented. According to the Nicosia, Cyprus,-based Middle East Economic Survey, an influential weekly specializing in oil, the seven nations were Mexico, Oman, Egypt, China, Colombia, Malaysia and Angola.
AP900205-0205 	X	``I'm a documentary producer,'' says Jeff Harmon. ``What I do is document history.'' During the war in Afghanistan, he did it the hard way _ with one program about the rebels, then another about the Soviet troops. On Sunday, Ted Turner's TBS Superstation, which aired Harmon's first show in 1986 and the other in December, is repeating the second, ``Afghanistan: The Soviet Experience.'' Vietnam vets in particular might find some of its scenes eerily familiar. There's no triple canopy jungle, to be sure. But there are the contour-flying helicopters, the door gunners watching the ground, the dusty hill outposts resupplied by chopper and the convoy-guarding armored personnel carrier rolling along, its young driver listening to Western rock on his boombox. Another deja vu moment, in a Kabul hospital: The wounded Soviet grunt who, according to the show's English translation, complains that in this war, ``you can't understand who are the civilians and who are the enemies.'' The two programs _ the first is ``Afghanistan's Holy War'' _ were filmed three years apart and shown on TBS' National Geographic Explorer series. Harmon, 36, was born in Los Angeles. Based in London, but ``living out of my suitcase now,'' he says he's ``basically self-educated,'' with a year logged at New York University's film school. He did his first Afghanistan war documentary out of plain curiosity: ``The image of these 19th century tribesmen battling a superpower intrigued the hell out of me. And I got sucked into the image and went.'' Bankrolled by the BBC, Harmon and cameraman Alexander Lindsay emulated other correspondents trying to cover the rebels after Soviet troops were sent to Afghanistan in 1979. The two slipped across the border from Pakistan in 1985. His aim, he says, was to show the war from the grunt-level perspective of the Soviet-fighting rebels, the mujahideen, ``the muj'' (pronounced ``mooj''), as some Westerners call them. ``I don't go in with a correspondent or make myself a correspondent,'' he says. ``I tell the story of the people I'm covering. I do it through their eyes. ... I don't whitewash anything. I don't take a partisan view.'' Indeed, he says, some rebel political leaders got upset at his documentary about the rebel troops, including what the troops thought of their leaders and ``their real way of life,'' including that some smoked hashish. The leaders considered all that bad for the rebel image, says Harmon. His opinion of them isn't kind: ``They were like World War I generals. To them, their men ... out on the front lines, were cannon fodder.'' Harmon wanted to film the Soviet GIs' side of the war, but didn't have high hopes. Having been with the rebels trying to kill them, he thought, would not exactly make him welcome, not even in the new era of Mikhail Gorbachev's glasnost easing access for Western journalists. To his surprise, he says, the Soviets granted him a visa when he sought to cover, for Britain's Independent Television News, the start of the Soviet troop withdrawal from Afghanistan in 1988. His theory is that Soviet officials had seen his earlier documentary and at least thought it honest. Visa in hand, he hurriedly called National Geographic officials in the United States, got the green light for a full-length documentary and, with cameraman Lindsay, went to work. He says he told Soviet officials in Kabul this: ``I'm not going to make a propaganda film for you. But I'm not going to do a hatchet job on you, either. All I want to do is show the war through the eyes of the ordinary Ivan.'' Word of the unusual travels fast in any army. Most Soviet grunts and helicopter pilots he met already knew he'd covered the rebel side of the war, Harmon says. But he found little, if any, animosity toward him, he says: ``They were fascinated by the fact we'd covered the war on the other side. The soldiers, they were so curious, so `What was the enemy like?' I think they looked at me as a chance to see what it was like on the other side.'' __ Elsewhere in television ... SAJAK'S NEW LOOK _ THE SEQUEL: If you've been watching CBS' ``The Pat Sajak Show'' this week, you might have noticed yet more changes in the struggling late-night series, cut last month from 90 minutes to an hour. The show's couch is gone, replaced by two black leather chairs: one for Sajak, one for the guest. Other changes include new graphics and a roundtable discussion by guests near the close of the show. No word yet, though, on whether an ejection seat is planned for dull guests.
AP901128-0072 	X	A federal judge today lifted his ban against Cable News Network's broadcast of Manuel Noriega's prison phone calls to his legal team. The ban on CNN's use of the tape had sparked a fierce constitutional debate, pitting the right of free speech against the right to a fair trial. ``The tapes may be published as CNN wishes to publish them,'' said U.S. District Judge William Hoeveler during a morning hearing. Noriega's attorney Frank Rubino said he no longer had any objection to CNN's use of the tapes. The only tape he challenged was a conversation between Noriega and his defense team which had already been broadcast by CNN. ``It does no good to close the barn door after the horse is out,'' Rubino said today. The judge also ordered the federal Bureau of Prisons to stop its practice of sharing tape-recorded conversations in the Noriega case with other government agencies. Hoeveler last month temporarily barred CNN from using parts of taped conversations between Noriega and his attorneys, who said airing the tapes would destroy the ousted Panamanian dictator's defense against drug charges. CNN broadcast some tapes, including a conversation between Noriega and Rubino's secretary, who acted as a translator for Rubino's investigator. An appeals court and the U.S. Supreme Court refused to lift the order, and CNN last week turned over the tapes it had obtained to Hoeveler for review. In Atlanta, CNN spokesman Steve Haworth said it was doubtful that CNN would broadcast any of the tapes today. Rubino, after the hearing, said he still intended to ask for contempt penalties against CNN for airing the tapes despite Hoeveler's order. Steven Korn, attorney for CNN parent Turner Broadcasting System Inc., said the network contended from the beginning that prior restraint was wrong. ``It's fizzled. No prior restraint is ever appropriate,'' Korn said outside the courtroom. He also said he considered the contempt issue moot. Korn emphasized the judge's order to the Bureau of Prisons, saying that was the correct approach to dealing with the taping of Noriega's phone calls. Noreiga, who is awaiting trial on charges of taking $4.6 million in payoffs to protect cocaine trade through Panama, is being held in a federal prison near Miami. Federal prison authorities monitor and tape record all inmates' telephone conversations except those between inmates and their lawyers. The government has maintained that Noriega knew the calls were being taped and that the calls were not protected by the attorney-client privelege. Information from the Noriega tapes already is in the hands of at least one additional party, the government of Panama, according to an affidavit filed Tuesday by that nation's attorney in the United States, Gregory Craig. The affidavit sought to persuade another judge hearing Panama's $6.5 billion racketeering lawsuit against the deposed dictator to freeze all Noriega's assets. Craig refused to disclose how he obtained information about the taped conversations, but the affidavit appeared to include information not broadcast by CNN. Noriega's attorneys have alleged that the U.S. government made the tapes and supplied them to Panama, which in turn leaked them to CNN, but Craig refused to comment. The affidavit said tapes of Noriega's calls show that ``while in custody, he has been using the telephone for the purpose of moving assets wrongfully obtained by him that are the property of the republic of Panama.'' Noriega spoke on the tapes to his daughter Sandra Noriega, his mistress Vicki Amado, his mistress's mother and seven others, including former pro-Noriega presidential candidate Carlos Duque, the documents said. Noriega ``directed and continues to direct the movement of assets'' from Hong Kong, Israel, Singapore, Australia and Brazil; the funds were moved to banks in Europe as well as through Costa Rica to Panama, Craig said. Craig would not say how much money was involved in the taped conversations, but added, ``We've said from the beginning that we think there is $300 million to $500 million of assets out there.'' Noriega's attorney in the civil case, Stephen Zukoff, disputed the legality of Craig's affidavit during hearing Tuesday before U.S. District Judge Edward Davis, who is presiding over the civil case. ``I don't know where he's getting his information from - he certainly should have identified it,'' Zukoff said. He said he could not discuss whether the information was accurate without examining it further. During the hearing, John Kester, another attorney for Panama, noted the tapes appeared to show Noriega was moving money from one account to another while telling Hoeveler he had no assets and could not pay his attorneys. ``He can't have it both ways,'' Kester said. Hoeveler has said he will appoint government-paid defense attorneys if the fee dispute is not settled soon.
AP880229-0108 	X	James G. Radakovich liked to dance with his wife at the local Serbian club and take care of his Cadillac and his yard, said those who knew him. No one knows what led to the shootings Saturday that claimed the life of Radakovich, his wife and their sons, both college students. Police say Radakovich shot them dead and then himself. ``You never know what goes on inside a family,'' said Richard Grilli, a neighbor. ``Something happened. He just cracked up,'' said Joseph Bergamasco, a police officer in this working-class Pittsburgh suburb. Mary Radakovich, 57, was found on the livingroom floor. One son, James L., 21, was in his bed, and Paul, 19, was on the floor of their bedroom. Radakovich, 54, a retired steelworker, died of a single gunshot wound in the head and was found beside his younger son, authorities said. He had two notes in a pocket of his pajamas, one a will, the other burial instructions. ``The note said he was sorry for what he is doing, but possibly they would all be better off wherever they were going. But it gave no reason,'' said Bergamasco. Investigators found no signs of struggle. ``Whether he was depressed, I don't know, but he didn't show it,'' said Samuel Budich, Mrs. Radakovich's brother. ``He was always a good husband to my sister,'' Budich said. ``Two weeks ago he was dancing the `colo' down at the Narodi Dom.'' The deaths were discovered after James' girlfriend alerted her father that all three family cars were parked at the home but no one was answering the door. Police found two .22-caliber pistols, a revolver and an automatic. Radakovich was laid off from the Homestead Works of USX Corp. two years ago, and had a good pension, relatives said. He caddied at the Oakmont Country Club for extra money. ``He took up golf when he was laid off,'' said Grilli. ``He'd have a beer now and then, but I never saw him drunk. He took care of his house and his lawn. He was nice, quiet.''
AP900912-0144 	X	A Roman Catholic bishops' organization said Wednesday it had asked the Bush administration to make sure the trade embargo against Iraq does not cover essential food and medicine for civilians. ``The moral justification for our intervention requires that we maintain the distinction between the Iraqi regime and ordinary and vulnerable Iraqi citizens,'' said a letter to Secretary of State James A. Baker III from the chairman of the U.S. Catholic Bishops's Committe on International policy. ``We urge that in the implementation of the embargo and other sanctions against Iraq the utmost care and sensitivity be exercised so that innocent civilians are not deprived of those essentials for the maintenance of life, i.e., food and medicines,'' wrote the committee chairman, Archbishop Roger M. Mahony of Los Angeles. A United Nations sanctions committee could not agree on what kind of food aid to allow into Iraq and occupied Kuwait. Most of the delegates want to allow shipments only to foreigners and children, while Cuba and Yemen called for a broader resolution allowing in food to all civilians. Bush has said the United States favors ``humanitarian'' food and medical shipments but has not spelled out what that should mean.
AP900621-0001 	X	The U.S. Navy sought Thursday to assure the public that the aircraft carrier Midway was safe after two explosions on board killed two crew members and seriously injured nine. ``The safety of the ship was never in jeopardy,'' Rear Adm. Lyle Bull, commander of the Battle Force 7th Fleet, told reporters escorted aboard the ship a day after the fire. Japan, the only country to experience nuclear attack, asked the U.S. military to improve its safety practices. Yokosuka officials had demanded assurances of the 45-year-old carrier's safety before its return. Demonstrators charged the ship was carrying nuclear weapons into its home port at Yokosuka despite a Japanese ban. The United States refuses to comment on the location of its nuclear weapons. About 50 protesters chanting ``Don't let the Midway land here'' and ``Nuclear Ship Get Out'' assembled outside the Navy base gate about an hour before the 67,000-ton ship moored at Yokosuka, 28 miles southwest of Tokyo. Eight of the demonstrators wore sashes identifying them as victims of the U.S. atomic bombings of the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945. Navy officials allowed relatives of the crew onto the ship before reporters were taken aboard. ``Midway is safe and seaworthy in all respects,'' Bull said, stressing that there was no danger to the ship's weapons systems from the explosions. Bull said the first explosion occurred shortly after noon Wednesday when a fire-fighting crew investigating smoke opened the hatch to a 12-by-12-foot emergency equipment storeroom six decks below the flight deck. ``Death most probably was instantaneous'' for the two sailors killed in the blast, he said. In addition to the nine seriously injured, who were flown to hospitals ashore, seven other injured crewmen were treated on the ship. The second explosion came 45 minutes later, Bull said. Earlier, Navy officials said there was a fire in the room. Bull said there were explosions, burn injuries, smoke and intense heat, but not necessarily a fire. The room was near a pipe for the ship's catapult system containing pressurized steam at 850 degrees and ``water sprayed on the bulkhead turned to steam, that's how hot it was,'' he said. One unidentified crew member interviewed on Japanese television said a fuel pipe near the steam line cracked and leaked fuel, which then ignited. Navy officials said they could not comment until an investigation is complete. Capt. Arthur K. Cebrowski said about 1,000 sailors worked through the night to secure the area and flood it with water and foam and provide support. The bodies were found early Thursday, he said. In Washington, the Pentagon identified the two dead sailors as Ulric Patrick Johnson of Martinez, Calif., and Jeffrey Allan Vierra of Nevada City, Calif. The Midway carries a crew of 4,500 and 62 aircraft. The 1,000-foot carrier was commissioned in 1945 and is the Navy's oldest in active service, although it has been extensively modernized. The explosions occurred as the ship participated in a joint exercise 125 miles northeast of Yokosuka with the Japanese Maritime Self Defense Force. Navy officials said the exercise would continue without the Midway. In Japan many people have misgivings about the presence of 50,000 U.S. troops and U.S. armaments here. The Midway fire was the second serious Navy accident since a series of incidents last fall killed 14 people.
AP900324-0083 	X	The chairman of a House panel studying the health of the nation's $1.7 trillion pension system praised a Labor Department proposal designed to crack down on fraud and abuse in the system. Rep. Tom Lantos, D-Calif., who is chairman of the House Government Operations employment and housing subcommittee, called Labor Secretary Elizabeth Dole's plan ``prompt and inclusive.'' In the past, members of Congress have criticized the way the Labor Department policed the nation's pension system and suggested that fraud and abuse could rival the savings and loan crisis. The Labor Department's proposal, outlined last week in a letter to Lantos' panel, increases fines for fraudulent transactions and makes it easier for employees to bring lawsuits against pension fund trustees who mismanage assets. It also provides rewards for people who inform the government of fund violations. Some of the changes stemmed from recommendations from acting Labor Department Inspector General Raymond Maria, who has been feuding with the agency over the way it investigates pension fraud. ``They went twice as far as we thought they would,'' Lisa Phillips, an aide to Lantos' subcommittee, said Friday. Phillips predicted some lawmakers would try to go farther by adding provisions to provide greater protection of pension payments when companies terminate plans to capture their surplus assets. Labor Department spokeswoman Johanna Schneider said the agency would have to review further changes before taking a position. Under the department's plan, employees who win suits against trustees who mismanaged pension plans would have their legal fees paid by the trustees personally rather than through pension assets. In addition, the plan lets Mrs. Dole pay a ``bounty'' to informers of as much as 10 percent of any fines collected by the government for pension violations. Penalties for illegal transactions would increase to 10 percent of the amount of the transaction. Fines are now 5 percent of the transaction. The agency's plan also implements new audit procedures that require accountants to do a full audit of pension plans on their own rather than relying on the statements of state examiners. Mrs. Dole already has asked Congress to add 100 enforcement officers to the department's Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration. The Labor proposal does not include Maria's recommendation that the inspector general's office be allowed to pursue criminal investigations of pension and welfare fund violations. Maria wanted Congress to in effect overturn a Justice Department ruling that prohibited inspectors general from conducting criminal investigations. Phillips said the House subcommittee was not likely to go against the Labor Department on the issue because lawmakers considered it a ``turf war'' between the Justice Department and inspectors general. Maria had known he was not going to be named to the post permanently; President Bush last week nominated Julian De La Rosa, executive secretary of the St. Louis police board, as his replacement.
AP880528-0080 	X	Fire raced through a refugee camp on the outskirts of Dhaka on Saturday and injured at least 80 people and left 17,000 homeless, police and fire officials said. A police officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the blaze wiped out most of the shanties in the camp at Mirpour, north of the city. The fire was believed caused by an electrical short-circuit. The camp housed Biharis awaiting resettlement in Pakistan. The Biharis, who are Moslems, originated in India but settled in the territory once known as East Pakistan. The territory became Bangladesh in 1971, after a war with Pakistan. Thousands of Biharis have been resettled in Pakistan, but nearly 250,000 remain in Bangladesh awaiting transfer. The resettlement program has been suspended for lack of funds. Nasim Khan, a leader of the Biharis, complained that there are often fires at the refugee camps because of poor construction. ``Our repeated requests to the concerned authorities to do something about it have produced no results,'' Khan said. He estimated it would cost $3 million to rebuild the camp and replace the families' lost goods. There was no word on the conditions of those injured.
AP880526-0030 	X	Here are some highlights of the catastrophic health insurance legislation approved Wednesday by a House-Senate conference committee: HOSPITAL _ Expands full coverage from maximum of 59 days a year to 364 days. A ``first-day'' deductible will continue to be required. DOCTOR BILLS _ Full payment of ``reasonable and proper'' doctor bills after an annual deductible is met. The deductible, yet to be precisely determined, will be from $1,320 and $1,400. Medicare continues to pay 80 percent of charges, with the 20 percent not now covered counting toward the annual deductible for the catastrophic benefit. DRUGS _ Medicare pays 50 percent of outpatient drug costs, after a $600 annual deductible, starting in 1991. Medicare pays 60 percent the following year and 80 percent in 1993 and thereafter, with the deductible to be indexed to rising drug costs. Medicare now has no across-the-board prescription drug coverage. COSTS _ To be paid solely by Medicare beneficaries. Current Part B premium of $24.80 to increase by about $4 a month in 1989. By 1993, the ``catastrophic'' monthly premium is projected at $10.20, in addition to whatever the regular Part B premium is at that time. More than 60 percent of total program costs are to be financed by an additional ``supplemental'' premium that is linked to federal income tax liability. The supplemental is estimated at $22 a year per $150 of tax liability in 1989, rising to $42 a year per $150 of tax liability in 1993.
AP900403-0158 	X	The state Legislature passed a largely symbolic measure Tuesday aimed at ensuring women will be able to continue getting legal abortions until the fetus is able to live outside the womb. Gov. Judd Gregg said he would veto the bill. After a brief debate, the House voted 200-135 for the bill, passed by the House earlier and amended by the Senate. The margin was shy of the two-thirds that would be needed to override Gregg's promised veto. The key vote in the Senate last week, 14-10, also was short of a two-thirds margin. The bill may not reach Gregg until next week, but he repeated Tuesday that he'll veto it. Under the U.S. Supreme Court's 1973 Roe vs. Wade decision, abortion is legal and widely available in New Hampshire despite three 19th-century anti-abortion statutes that have not been enforced. The National Abortion Rights Action League considers the bill pro-choice advocates' best chance for abortion rights legislation in the country this year. But Peg Dobbie, the group's New Hampshire spokeswoman, said it would be a ``long shot'' for the Legislature to override a veto. Though not giving up hope, she said pro-choice advocates are now focusing on the November election. ``We plan to go out and elect more pro-choice legislators so we can be veto-proof,'' she said. The original House bill called for no restrictions on abortion until the 25th week of pregnancy. The Senate changed that to allow unrestricted abortion until the woman's doctor determined that the fetus could live outside the womb on its own. Both versions would allow abortions after fetal viability to protect the life or health of the mother or if the fetus has a life-threatening physical or congenital abnormality. Gregg believes the bill would foster ``doctor-shopping'' because doctors will differ on what constitutes viability, spokesman Brian Grip said. Gregg reiterated his stand that abortion should be limited to instances where the mother's life is in danger, there is a serious problem with the fetus or the pregnancy stemmed from rape or incest. State Rep. Thomas Gage, head of the Judiciary Committee, supported the amended bill, saying it set a ``medical standard in place of a political one ... rather than a hard line drawn in statute by black letter.'' But state Rep. Shawn Jasper said the medical community disagrees about when a fetus can survive outside a mother's womb and urged defeat of the bill. Elsewhere Tuesday: _In the Nebraska Legislature, anti-abortion lawmakers succeeded in keeping alive a proposal that would require a 24-hour waiting period before a woman has an abortion. They moved it to the second stage of floor consideration without allowing opportunity for amendment. _A Louisiana state senator introduced an anti-abortion bill that provides exceptions for saving the mother's life during birth, but allows no exceptions for cases of rape or incest. ``Just as being raped and becoming pregnant is a traumatic experience, so is aborting a child,'' said state Sen. Mike Cross. _In Minnesota, a second Senate committee rejected a measure that would prohibit most abortions in the state. The 1990 legislative session tentatively is scheduled to adjourn next week. _Voters in Ann Arbor, Mich., declared their university town a ``zone of reproductive freedom.'' Voters also approved on Monday a token $5 fine on abortion, should state or federal laws ever ban the procedure.
AP881103-0273 	X	The Treasury Department plans to borrow $30 billion next week to replenish the government's coffers, although the auctions will not include any 30-year bonds. Every three months, the government holds three debt sales to finance the $2.6 trillion national debt. It normally sells three-year notes, 10-year notes and 30-year bonds. However, Treasury officials said Wednesday that the 30-year bond will not be part of next week's auction because President Reagan has not yet signed a tax bill with a provision needed to give the government authority to issue any more such bonds. William Bremner, deputy assistant treasury secretary for finance, said the tax bill, which cleared Congress right before adjournment, has not yet reached Reagan's desk. He said if the president does get the measure in the next few weeks, the Treasury will auction a new batch of 30-year bonds totaling $9 billion later this month or in early December. If the Treasury does not get the authority, Bremner said the government will offer a second short-term debt instrument known as a cash-management bill. The auctions for next week call for: _$9.5 billion in three-year notes in minimum denominations of $5,000 to be auctioned Wednesday. _$9.5 billion in 10-year notes in minimum denominations of $5,000 to be auctioned Thursday. _$11 billion in a 37-day cash management bill to be auctioned Thursday in minimum amounts of $1 million. These bills are purchased by security houses.
AP881201-0129 	X	Pope John Paul II on Thursday met with a U.S. archbishop who had been punished by the Vatican for permitting homosexual gatherings and for other liberal practices objectionable to the Holy See. Seattle Archbishop Raymond Hunthausen came to Rome to fulfill the requirement that bishops consult with the pope every five years and report on their dioceses. The Vatican's official bulletin listed the meeting without comment. Hunthausen could be not be reached for comment about his meeting with the pope. In 1985, the Vatican removed Hunthausen's authority in several major areas, after accusing him of being loose in granting marriage annulments and general absolution for sins as well as of allowing homosexuals to gather in church facilities. His authority was restored in 1987 and a coadjutor archbishop, Thomas Murphy, was named. While the disciplinary action was in force, an auxiliary bishop, Donald Wuerl, was assigned to wield the authority in those areas. While under discipline, Hunthausen denounced the split-authority arrangement as unworkable and humiliating. U.S. bishops, often at odds with the Vatican on such issues as sexuality, expressed dismay over the case. After Hunthausen's authority was restored, a three-member commission was appointed to work out remaining problems in the archdiocese.
AP901102-0065 	X	Here are the unemployment rates for 11 major states released Friday by the Labor Department: -California, 6.0 percent, up from 5.9 percent in September. -Florida, 6.2 percent, up from 6.0 percent. -Illinois, 5.9 percent, down from 7.2 percent. -Massachusetts, 6.3 percent, up from 6.2 percent. -Michigan, 7.4 percent, up from 7.2 percent. -New Jersey, 5.5 percent, up from 5.2 percent. -New York, 5.6 percent, up from 5.5 percent. -North Carolina, 4.6 percent, up from 3.7 percent. -Ohio, 5.9 percent, up from 5.2 percent. -Pennsylvania, 6.1 percent, up from 5.5 percent. -Texas, 5.7 percent, down from 6.3 percent.
AP880721-0232 	X	Secretary of State George Shultz said Thursday he was confident after talks with Philippines President Corazon Aquino that American military bases will remain in that country. ``The bases are very important to the Philippines and to the United States,'' Shultz said after a speech here on his way home from a 2{-week trip through Asia and the Pacific. The United States and the Philippines are reviewing the treaty for U.S. naval and air bases in the Philippines, which expires in 1991. The Aquino government has asked the United States to pay more than $180 million a year to renew the treaty. ``I believe it will come to a successful outcome, but we're still in the process so I can't say for sure,'' Shultz said of the negotiations. ``We're getting somewhere,'' he said. ``I'm still bullish on the Philippines.'' Mrs. Aquino said last week she expects American and Filipino negotiators to complete their talks by the end of this month. The 41-year-old lease applies to Clark Air Base, Subic Naval Base and four smaller U.S. outposts. Both sides refused to reveal details of the negotiations. Shultz said the Philippines economy has improved in the two years since Mrs. Aquino took office, and that the U.S. bases and economic aid helped spur the growth. The country's growth rate after adjustment for inflation is about 7 percent this year, up from 5.5 percent last year, he said. Shultz made his comments after a speech at the East-West Center here, a research institute created by Congress and devoted to issues facing Asia and the Pacific. It was his first public appearance since returning to the United States early Wednesday from a trip to Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, the Philippines, Hong Kong, China, South Korea, Japan and the Marshall Islands. He is to return to Washington Friday. While Shultz hailed improved relations between the United States and the Soviet Union, saying they could have a ``ripple effect'' on other adversarial nations, he said Moscow was sending confusing signals in Asia and the Pacific. ``We have to wait and see,'' he said. ``I don't see why right now is the time for the Soviet Union to supply North Korea with new surface-to-air missiles. ... What's the message?'' Both the United States and the Soviet Union have pledged to help minimize conflicts between North and South Korea during the 1988 Olympics in Seoul, South Korea in September. About 75 people waving banners that said ``Stop U.S. Intervention in Central America'' protested Shultz's appearance, yelling ``U.S.-C.I.A. out of Central America,'' as police escorted his entourage after the talk. Shultz did not mention Central America in his speech or his answers to screened questions from the invited audience of 630 people.
AP881105-0029 	X	Here is a list of recommendations for computer users for virus prevention and control. It was drafted by the National LAN Laboratory in Reston, Va., and approved this week by more than 60 companies: 1. All software should be purchased from known, reputable sources. 2. All purchased software should be in its original shrink wrap or sealed diskette containers when received. 3. Back-up copies of all original software should be made as soon as the software package is opened. Back-up copies should be stored off-site. 4. All software should be reviewed carefully, by a system manager, before it is installed on a computer network. 6. New software should be quarantined on an isolated computer. This testing will greatly reduce the risk of system virus contamination. 7. A back-up copy of all system software and data should be made at least once a month, with the back-up copy stored for at least one year before re-use. This will allow restoration of a system that has been contaminated by a ``time-released'' virus. A plan that includes ``grandfathered'' rotation of back-up copies will reduce risk even further. 8. System administrators should restrict access to system programs and data on a ``need-to-use'' basis. This isolates problems, protects critical applications, and aids problem diagnosis. 9. All programs on a system should be checked regularly for program length changes. Any program-length deviations could be evidence of tampering, or virus infiltration. 10. Many shared or free programs are invaluable. However, these are the prime entry point for viruses. Skeptical review of such programs is prudent. Also, extended quarantine is essential before these programs are introduced to a computer system. 11. Any software that exhibits symptoms of possible virus contamination should be removed immediately. System managers should develop plans for quick removal of all copies of a suspect program, and immediate backup of all related data. These plans should be made known to all users, and tested and reviewed periodically.
AP900629-0206 	X	Pilot error in hazy conditions was ruled the probable cause of the plane crash last summer that killed U.S. Rep. Larkin Smith and his pilot, according to a federal report released Thursday. The National Transportation Safety Board report indicated that pilot Chuck Vierling, who was not rated to fly on instruments, probably lost control after encountering conditions that required them. Vierling, 58, of Gulfport had expressed concern about the haziness before leaving, the report said. Vierling had flown Smith, R-Miss., to Hattiesburg on Aug. 13. On the return flight to Gulfport, the Cessna 152 crashed into woods near New Augusta in southeastern Mississippi. The airplane was about 10 miles off course when it sheared off the top of a pine tree and crashed. Smith, 45, had represented the 5th Congressional District since January 1989.
AP880715-0242 	X	Oil prices rebounded from steep losses earlier in the week, but traders attributed the change to short-term influences and to Saudi Arabia's denial that it was boosting production. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, the near-month contract for West Texas Intermediate crude rose 32 cents per barrel from its 21-month low to close Thursday at $14.76. Among refined products traded on the exchange, wholesale unleaded gasoline rose .06 cent a gallon to 50.54 cents, and No. 2 heating oil rose .77 cent a gallon to 40.91 cents. Douglas R. Peterson, a broker at E.D.&F. Man International Futures Inc. in New York, called it a short-covering rally, meaning the rise was caused by speculators who purchased oil to cover borrowed contracts that they had sold earlier. Short-covering is an internal market influence that causes brief price rises. Others attributed the advance to official Saudi denials of expanded production by the world's largest oil exporter. There have been repeated reports that Saudi Arabia and its key Arab allies in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries are sharply raising output in reaction to widespread quota cheating by other OPEC members. These reports have played a major role in the oil market's recent decline. Other rumors circulating in the market suggested the Saudis were selling more oil to pay for their multibillion-dollar weapons deal with Britain. The Saudi Press Agency said the country was the victim of an ``artificial information campaign ... by oil brokers and their agents in the market.'' ``The kingdom strongly denies the truth of such charges and wishes to reaffirm its full commitment to its assigned level of production by OPEC,'' the statement read.
AP900827-0124 	X	A nuclear reactor at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, site of a disastrous 1986 explosion, was shut down Monday because of a malfunction, Izvestia reported. The government newspaper, in a report attributed to Nikolai Shteinberg, deputy chairman of the State Committee for Nuclear Power Station Safety, said the staff of Reactor No. 3 shut down the unit ``in keeping with operational rules.'' ``Established safety standards were not violated,'' the newspaper said. It gave no further details on the malfunction. It was Chernobyl's Reactor No. 4 that caught fire and exploded on April 26, 1986, spewing radioactive cesium, strontium and plutonium over a wide area of the Ukraine, Byelorussia and Russia. Official reports say 31 people were killed in the partial meltdown, but unofficial reports say 250 died. Four years after the accident, more than 2 million people are still living on contaminated lands in the region.
AP900309-0016 	X	The investigation into the theft of a coat and hat was only a day old when the prime suspect, wearing his booty, waltzed into police headquarters and the arms of the law. Randolph Ferland, 53, stopped Wednesday at the police station in this west-central Connecticut town to use the bathroom, but was arrested after an alert police captain realized Ferland and his outfit matched witnesses' descriptions. The crime drama began Tuesday night when someone sneaked into the Lutheran Church of Cheshire, and stole a winter coat and knit hat from a closet. A few church members got a glimpse of the man, and described him to police. Police Capt. Gary Walberg said he was reading a report on the theft Wednesday when he happened to peer out of his office and saw the man described in the report _ jacket, hat and all. ``He matched the description to a T,'' Walberg said. The only thing missing was the victim to identify the coat Ferland was wearing as the one that had been taken. As that thought crossed Walberg's mind, the victim walked into the police station to see if the coat had been found. It had. After spending most of the day in jail, Ferland pleaded guilty in Meriden Superior Court to sixth-degree larceny by possession. A judge released him for time already served.
AP880326-0104 	X	An American photographer stood trial Saturday on drug smuggling charges and testified that his only crime was being stupid enough to let a cocaine ring dupe him into doing its dirty work. The trial of 23-year-old Conan Owen, whose case has drawn the attention of Attorney General Edwin Meese III, began and ended Saturday. The three-judge panel that took testimony for 2{ hours wasn't expected to issue a verdict for about a week. The free-lance photographer from Annandale, Va., is charged with smuggling 4.13 pounds of cocaine into Spain in a suitcase on March 13, 1987. James Kibble, a special agent for the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, testified that Owen was tricked by a drug trafficking ring into carrying the cocaine. Owen, he said, is ``innocent _ or stupid _ but innocent.'' The prosecution is asking for 10 years in prison on contraband charges and on charges Owen violated public health laws that prohibit the transport or sale of dangerous drugs. The defense contends Owen thought the suitcase only contained travel brochures, photographs and film. Owen, a 1986 graduate of Syracuse University and a former summer intern in Vice President George Bush's office, has spent the past year in Barcelona's 85-year-old Model Prison without possibility of bail. He told the court Saturday that he carried a suitcase to Barcelona from Santiago, Chile, for George Barahona, an Equadorean-born naturalized American who was living near Washington, D.C. Owen said Barahona represented himself as one of the owners of the Sorosa Travel Agency near Washington, D.C. and offered him $1,000 to take travel brochure pictures in Spain. Owen said Barahona gave him a suitcase to take with him, which he believed to contain the brochures and film. The suitcase contained $200,000 in cocaine. Owen told the court he had always obeyed the law and acknowledged he had been ``stupid _ but that is not a crime.'' Judge Jose Presencia Rubio, who heads a three-member panel hearing the case, refused to admit as evidence testimony about a polygraph test Owen took. Owen's lawyer, Ana Campa, said the test, administered by a DEA agent, indicates Owen was telling the truth when he said he knew nothing about the drug. Federal agents allege Barahona is part of a drug ring that moves cocaine from South America to Spain. On Feb. 5, Barahona pleaded guilty to a charge of conspiracy to smuggle drugs in U.S. District Court in Alexandria, Va. He received a two-year suspended sentence after providing information that led to the indictment of three Spaniards and three Bolivians in a conspiracy to smuggle illegal drugs. They remain at large. When Meese came to Spain to sign an annex to a 1970 extradition treaty Feb. 9, he handed over copies of Barahona's testimony to Spanish judicial authorities. Prosecutor Teresa Calvo called only two witnesses _ the paramilitary Civil Guard on duty at El Prat Airport who discovered the cocaine and the chemist who analyzed the drug as being 84 percent pure cocaine. Assistant U.S. Attorney Justin Williams of Alexandria, Va., testified for the defense that statements obtained from Barahona following the plea-bargain arrangement indicated Owen had unwittingly taken the cocaine-laden suitcase to Spain. ``He (Barahona) specifically told us that Conan Owen had no knowledge that there was cocaine in the suitcase he carried into Barcelona airport March 13,'' Williams said. Kibble, also testifying for the defense, said he became interested in the Owen case because Owen was from the Washington, D.C. area and the DEA was investigating a cocaine-smuggling ring that operated out of northern Virginia. ``I have found that there is a group of people involved in sending drugs from South America to Spain using unsuspecting people as carriers,'' Kibble testified. ``The DEA was interested in the details Conan Owen had to tell for the conspiracy case we were working on,'' he said. Owen wore a gray suit and stood with his hands clasped behind his back when addressing the court. He spoke in Spanish with occasional assistance from a court-appointed interpreter. His parents Ernest and Raquel Owen of Annandale, Va., sat directly behind him. His 25-year-old brother Evan was also present. According to the U.S. Embassy in Madrid, as of last month there were 25 U.S. citizens in jail in Spain. Six are serving prison terms following conviction on drug-related charges, and another eight, not including Owen, are awaiting trial. There are no jury trials in Spain, and courts generally take about a week to issue verdicts.
AP900322-0142 	X	A federal judge approved a settlement Thursday that keeps the state from restricting abortions to women less than 18 weeks pregnant. U.S. District Judge John Nordberg agreed to the settlement between Illinois Attorney General Neil Hartigan and the American Civil Liberties Union. ``The court finds the proposed consent decree lawful, fair, reasonable and adequate,'' the judge wrote in the 13-page opinion. Anti-abortion groups opposed the settlement, calling it ``unconscionable and unconstitutional.'' Ragsdale vs. Turnock was settled Nov. 24, just days before the U.S. Supreme Court was scheduled to hear the case. It was one of several that anti-abortion groups had hoped would be used as a test case for the 1973 Roe vs. Wade decision legalizing abortion. The settlement permits the state to regulate abortion clinics without removing the availability of abortions to women who are less than 18 weeks pregnant. Under the agreement, access to abortions cannot be restricted by substantially increasing the cost of the procedure or reducing the number of clinics. The lawsuit was brought by Rockford physician Richard Ragsdale, who objected to regulations requiring abortion clinics to be equipped and staffed like small hospitals. He said the regulation was a veiled attempt to restrict access to abortions. One of the requirements deleted from the settlement mandated that patients receive counseling about birth control and adoption and that counselors be people who wouldn't profit from abortions. The settlement also eliminated a requirement that all abortion clinics go through a public hearing process and obtain a ``certificate of need'' from the state verifying that they do not duplicate similar services in their areas.
AP901217-0203 	X	Both practicality and sentiment had a part in Annie Chervin's wedding dress choice. The Westchester County, N.Y., bride had her French vanilla silk gown made to order. It was a copy of a $3,000 dress that she tried on in an upscale department store but cost her less than half - $1,220. It had the same peau de soie bodice, off-the-shoulder neckline appliqued with satin rosettes and graceful skirt of four layers of tulle. ``Part of me wanted to buy the expensive dress,'' recalls Annie. Her future mother-in-law, Shiela Edwards, burst into tears when she saw Annie model it in the store. But the dress cost far more than Annie had planned on spending. So she sketched it from memory and had a dressmaker re-create it. In choosing this design, she followed a style that has long been popular among brides. The bridal dress with layered skirt of tulle or organza attached to a fitted plain or beaded bodice is an enduring style, says Rachel Leonard, fashion editor of Bride's Magazine. The bodice may have less ornamentation than it did in versions of earlier years. Another perennial is the sculptured cut, in which the shape and outline of the dress is its most important characteristic. There may be a peplum, or the dress may have an enormous ballgown skirt and a portrait neckline. Over the past few years, brides have been exercising more individuality in dressing as the number of available styles has increased. Leonard discerns two strong directions: Some brides dress daringly, while others choose the demure, covered-up styles of tradition. Well-known couture designers like Arnold Scaasi and Carolina Herrera have injected a sophisticated stylishness to many wedding dress designs. In the vanguard are very short dresses. These may have a detachable overskirt or train in longer lengths. Bare shoulders and low necklines, which once would have been unthinkable, now are often found in wedding dresses. Traditional lace has been re-emerging as a favored bridal dress material. And if the bride doesn't have an ancestor who obligingly left her an heirloom gown, she can shop for one in an antiques store. At least three stores in New York City carry old bridal dresses, and there are similar stores in other parts of the country, according to Leonard. The dresses usually have been cleaned and reconditioned and can be altered to fit. Ann Lawrence Antiques in New York, for example, stocks more than 500 antique dresses and new dresses constructed of antique materials. Lawrence says she sells dresses priced from $500 to $15,000 to brides all over the country. To find antique bridal dresses, she advises contacting the curator of a museum costume collection or a local antiques dealers' association, who would be likely to know costume specialists who handle these dresses. It's often hard to tell how much a dress might have cost. Bride's Magazine says the average price paid for a bridal dress is $794. Prices can range from about $250 to $20,000. ``The best buys in terms of sophisticated styles, fine fabrics and hand detailing are found in dresses that cost between $1,200 to $1,600,'' says Leonard. Dresses under $700 are more likely to be informal in style and of synthetic rather than real silk. However, the bride won't have to sacrifice beading, which is being done inexpensively in the Far East. The choice and stylishness of bridesmaid's dresses has come a long way, too, says Leonard. Sheer fabrics in prints look appropriate with the light and airy wedding dresses which are popular now. ``Short is a big trend in bridesmaid's dresses, both because of the influence of shorter skirts in fashion generally and because it is a young and fresh look which most bridal attendants look good in,'' says Leonard. And these dresses usually can be worn again. Popular color choices are pink, which is flattering to most people, and blue. The black and white and all-white wedding color schemes continue to be popular. Matched outfits are still the rule if there are several bridesmaids, but anything goes in terms of style and color, says Gerard Monaghan, director of the Association of Bridal Consultants in New Milford, Conn. But considerations of the bridesmaid's figure type and complexion are more important than ditating an unbecoming style simply to match a theme, he says. And more bridesmaid's dresses are being bought off the rack in retail shops rather than from bridal specialists. Dresses worn by mothers of the bridal pair usually are coordinated to the wedding style and complement but do not match each other. Men's attire is geared toward the degree of formality and time of day. Elegance and appropriateness are the two most important considerations, according to Leonard. Novelty bow ties and vests are a way to give the groom and his attendants a personal signature. There's a trend to coordinate the men's cummerbunds and ties with the bridesmaids' dresses. Often, the groom's attire is differentiated from his attendants' by an unusual tie and cummerbund. Novelty fabrics such as shadow stripe or textured suiting are being used. And the cropped jacket known as a Spencer continues to be popular among younger men.
AP880329-0257 	X	Sundstrand Corp., a major aerospace contractor, has agreed in principle to plead guilty to filing false statements with the government and pay $12.5 million for overcharging on military work, a newspaper reported. The proposed plea agreement covers allegations that the company's Seattle-based Sundstrand Data Control unit improperly included patent-litigation expenses in overhead costs on government military contracts, the Wall Street Journal reported Tuesday, quoting unidentified sources. Sundstrand said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission that it expected to face unspecified criminal charges in both Washington state and Illinois in connection with federal grand jury investigations of its accounting methods for handling government contracts and tax matters. ``The government has advised that it intends to charge the company with criminal violations in both districts,'' Sundstrand's filing stated. The document also reported that the company, Rockford's largest employer, was working on a settlement in one, and possibly both, of the actions. Federal charges could lead to the suspension of new government contracts for Sundstrand, which had $579 million in military sales in 1987. But if the company settled the dispute by paying ``materially adverse fines and penalties,'' it might be suspended only temporarily from new government business, according to Sundstrand's filing.
AP900725-0012 	X	A move to impose energy taxes as a way of trimming the federal budget deficit would severely hurt farmers and small-town people, says the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association. Rural electric systems operate at cost and are owned by their customers, said Bob Bergland, executive vice president of the association. Any price increase caused by energy taxes would be paid by consumers. ``Rural consumers can't escape,'' Bergland said Tuesday. ``They are the equity owners of the electric systems which provide electricity to them.'' Bergland, who was secretary of agriculture in the Carter administration, joined natural gas and electric utility leaders to protest any move by the Bush administration to raise money by imposing new energy taxes. One type of tax that has been suggested would base the tax on the amount of carbon in the fuel. Coal, petroleum and natural gas would be taxed, but nuclear, hydroelectric and solar energy would not because they contain no carbon, an air pollutant. Still another plan would base the tax on the amount of energy, measured in British thermal units, or BTUs, that a fuel contains. The BTU tax would apply to all fuels. Bergland, whose member co-ops serve more than 25 million people, said the rural economy has ``taken severe shocks'' the last decade through droughts, floods, falling commodity prices, plummeting land price and a sharp decline in federal funding for rural areas. ``Energy taxes will unfairly penalize rural areas which already have higher electricity rates, either by driving up the price of fuel used to generate electricity or by taxing the selling price of electricity,'' he said. A joint statement protesting the use of energy taxes was signed by Bergland; George Lawrence, president of the American Gas Association; Tom Kuhn, president of the Edison Electric Institute; and Larry Hobart, executive director of the American Public Power Association. ``The burden of broad-based energy taxes will fall unevenly across consumers and income classes, among industries and across regions of the country,'' the statement said. ``This is unfair and inequitable taxation.'' BTU and carbon-content taxes were described as ``inherently regressive.'' Such taxes were said capable of raising at least $14 billion a year. ``Heating, lighting, cooking and water heating are not luxuries but essentials,'' the statement said. ``Lower-income families already pay three to four times more of their income for energy than the average American family.''
AP900227-0029 	X	A fine cast, which included a performer making his Metropolitan Opera debut, made ``Abduction from the Seraglio'' a musical and visual treat. James Levine conducted the Mozart comedy with dash on Monday night. Lars Magnusson, a principal lyric tenor with the Royal Opera in Stockholm, was making his U.S. opera debut as Pedrillo, servant of Belmonte, a Spanish nobleman. It's the role he sang for his 1987 debut at Covent Garden and will sing for his San Francisco Opera debut next season. He has an unusual light tenor voice. It doesn't get heavy but it does have character. It's as though it has been given a light layer of wood-grained baritone tonal quality, the way colored varnish might be brushed onto a light wood. It sounds right for David in ``Die Meistersinger,'' which was Magnusson's Paris Opera debut role. Stanford Olsen of Salt Lake City provided a good tenor contrast as Belmonte. Olsen sounded serious, his voice focused and seemingly ready to sing oratorio. Mariella Devia of Imperia, Italy, sang Konstanze, the young woman who has been captured by pirates and sold to the Pasha for his harem. Her maid, Blondchen, and Pedrillo are captives in the Pasha's residence _ seraglio _ with her. Miss Devia's singing was like a string of pearls, her tone sweet, each note carefully rounded and clear. Both she and Barbara Kilduff as Blonchen had coloratura passages and both sang them beautifully. Miss Kilduff's acting was more understated and less relentlessly pert than some who sing Blonchen. But Magnusson was more nimble than most who sing Pedrillo, so the balance of that pair of sweethearts was maintained. Bass Kurt Moll of Buir, Germany, was Osmin, the Pasha's overseer. He was the only one in the cast who sang his part when this production was introduced in 1979. Moll has a voice of depth and richness and he has added some effective bits of comedy to a portrayal that already was very funny. Nico Castel took the speaking part of the Pasha. He creates the happy ending after Osmin discovers the abduction attempt by wandering around and sticking his arm through the plotters' ladder.
AP900531-0263 	X	Five days after taking Alpo Petfoods Inc. off the market, an official of the parent company visited Alpo headquarters and ordered top management to move out. Ian A. Martin, who heads American operations for Grand Metropolitan PLC of Great Britain, Alpo's parent, broke the news Tuesday to Frank Krum, Alpo president and chief executive officer, and Willard H. Cressman, senior vice president of finance. Alpo's 1,500 employees were informed later that day that Krum, 56, was being replaced by Rob Hawthorne, 45, previously president and chief executive officer of Pillsbury Canada, also part of Grand Metropolitan. Industry analysts Wednesday attributed the move to the expensive promotional campaign to introduce Alpo's new cat food. Krum will serve as a special adviser to Martin on trade and industry relations. Cressman has elected not to stay with the company, a Grand Met spokeswoman said. Krum, Cressman and Hawthorne were unavailable for comment. The 54-year-old pet food company was put up for sale Feb. 8, when Grand Met Chairman Allen Sheppard decided it didn't fit into the conglomerate's plans to focus on its human foods business. Alpo spent $70 million in promotions and advertising for the introduction of its cat food this year, including the use of the cartoon character Garfield. Alpo, the sixth-largest pet-food maker in the United States, now holds 9 percent of the $1.3 billion canned cat food market and 5 percent of the $1.1 billion dry cat food market, analysts said. Alpo, which earned $45 million in 1989 on sales of about $400 million, expects cat food sales to top $100 million in 1990. Because of the rapid growth of its cat food sales, Alpo was pulled off the market May 24. Martin said Grand Met and potential buyers were ``not able to reach agreement as to the value of Alpo's recently launched cat food business.''
AP900731-0019 	X	A coroner who dropped a dead infant head-first onto the floor as part of his research into skull fractures is being sued by the child's parents for $2 million in a case that has divided doctors over such practices. Some coroners say such research has been carried out in morgues for years. Others say the permission of the next of kin should be required. In the trial, which began last month, District Judge Hugh Brunson must decide whether state law allows coroners to conduct experiments not needed to determine the cause of death and whether approval from relatives is needed. No state court has previously ruled on the issue. But state Assistant Attorney General Chuck Yeager said in an opinion last year that the law does not authorize such experiments without the permission of the next of kin. Dr. Charles Odom, a deputy coroner for Lafayette Parish in southern Louisiana, was fired by his boss, Coroner Robert P. Thompson, who found out about the experiment on 4-month-old Christina Arnaud and informed the parents. Dwayne and Ellen Arnaud are seeking damages for emotional suffering. The trial, which is being held in Lafayette, 95 miles west of New Orleans, is in recess but resumes in August. The baby died of sudden infant death syndrome in 1986, and an autopsy was performed by Odom the same day. Odom held the baby by the heels and dropped it onto a concrete floor. Findings from the experiment were later used in a manslaughter trial in Hawaii in which charges against a father accused of killing his child were dismissed. Odom, now an assistant medical examiner in Dallas, testified in the Hawaii trial that he believed the experiments on the infant and on another baby's corpse proved that children could die from skull fractures suffered during accidental falls from the arms of an adult. Testifying at the Lafayette trial, Odom said he regarded the experiment as proper and said such research is not uncommon. While the primary purpose of an autopsy is to determine the cause and manner of death, there is a secondary purpose _ ``to gain medical knowledge and use that medical knowledge in the service of the living,'' Odom said. Some doctors defended the practice. ``I think it's a good thing and a needed thing,'' said Dr. Terry Welke, Calcasieu Parish coroner. ``There's a lot of knowledge brought about by experimentation that is not allowed on the living. It's a good practice to allow it here.'' Odom and other medical examiners say that skin, bone, eyes, heart valves and kidneys are often removed from bodies and used elsewhere, with and without the knowledge of the family. Dr. Monroe Samuels, a medical examiner in Orleans Parish, said requests to experiment on corpses during autopsies are submitted regularly by medical schools and research centers in New Orleans. ``We would only do it if it did not deface or deform the body,'' he said. ``We do have requests for some surgical techniques, but those are only done with permission of the next of kin. We're not talking about ghoulish things like leaning on an arm to see how far it will go before it breaks or shooting a gun at it.'' Welke said that in his office, doctors have come in to practice techniques on cadavers before moving on to live patients. ``It's done basically because physicians are trying to enhance their knowledge,'' he said. ``If the practice is cut off, it would be a big problem.'' But Dr. Sylvan J. Manuel, St. Landry Parish coroner and president of the Louisiana Coroners Association, was one of a number of coroners who said they knew of no experimentation unrelated to the autopsy being done in Louisiana. ``I don't think any of us are doing it, or should do it,'' Manuel said. ``I don't think anything should be done without the permission of the family. If you're going to take something off the body _ a fingernail even _ you should have permission of the family.'' Jefferson Parish Coroner Robert Treuting testified that experiments such as the one conducted by Odom help doctors and researchers perfect operating techniques and find cures for illness. Treuting said orthopedists have practiced dissecting joints on cadavers awaiting autopsies, and researchers took some parts from a body to study hardening of the arteries. Pathologists have the right to do anything they want with the body, including keeping it, if there is a legitimate research reason, Treuting testified. But he said it would be callous for the survivors to be told of experiments because it would compound their anguish.
AP880323-0019 	X	The Agriculture Department wants to hire a new editor for its single-sheet publication, Ag AM, which provides up to two dozen or so news blurbs daily for agency brass. Pay: $33,218 a year to start, with a top of $60,683. So far there have been 41 applicants, including some USDA information specialists who see an opportunity to boost their career prospects. The Ag AM report is issued five days a week, Monday through Friday, except on federal holidays, of course. Mostly it consists of single paragraphs summarizing stories from newspapers, wire services and news magazines. Ed Curran, who retired in 1984 after 20 years working for the department's Office of Information, was privy to the inside workings of Ag AM since it began during the Carter Administration. Now publisher of his own private newsletter, Curran offers a look at the history of the publication and how it grew. Someone in USDA thought the White House practice of providing President Carter with daily news summaries would be good for then-Agriculture Secretary Bob Bergland, Curran said in his latest issue. At first the daily summaries were sent only to the secretary and his office staff. But Bergland, who had read the news blurbs, ``began talking about things'' in the news that were not known to senior aides, including the deputy secretary and assistant secretaries. So the press run of Ag AM was increased, and the information office staffer who was responsible for its publication had to begin work earlier, by 6 a.m., for example, instead of the later regular starting time. ``By the time the Reagan administration came upon the scene, Ag AM was a staple at USDA,'' Curran said. Being on the offical list to get one was ``sort of like the government equivalent of a key to the executive washroom.'' The daily press run was increased to 100 copies, to take care of the demand from all the deputy assistant secretaries, administrators of agencies and staff economists. Meanwhile, the bureaucrats in the USDA's information office heard on the grapevine that Agriculture Secretary John R. Block ``was so smitten with Ag AM that he demanded copies to be telexed to him when he was on trips,'' Curran said. However, Block's successor, Richard E. Lyng, ``could care less'' about the news sheet, he added. ``One thing bureaucrats learn early in the game is that when something has the sweet smell of success about it, get behind it with all you've got,'' Curran said. ``So, why not devote more time to Ag AM? Make it a full-time job.'' Curran wryly observed that the information office, meanwhile, scuttled its long-standing weekly Farm Paper Letter, which was ``the department's main contact with the nation's farm magazine editors and farm editors of its daily newspapers.'' Curran named his twice-monthly newsletter the Farm Paper Letter, after the publication he wrote during his 20-year USDA career. Today, 100 copies of Ag AM are delivered to Lyng's office area, alone, Curran said. In all, the press run is 350 copies a day. ``This from an outfit that's vowed to save us money,'' he said. Dave Lane, director of the Office of Information, told The Associated Press it may take some time to select a new full-time Ag AM editor (the previous editor died earlier this year). Was there any consideration given to canceling Ag AM? No, Lane said. Why not? ``I guess because of the ... importance of that publication to inform our top officials,'' he said. ``It's one of the most widely distributed of all the things that we put out.'' Besides the copies distributed within USDA here, the daily news blurbs are now sent electronically to universities, state agriculture departments and other government offices. The report is also available to private users of USDA's electronic information system.
AP880614-0040 	X	Here is a list of convicted killers executed since the U.S. Supreme Court allowed states to restore the death penalty in 1976:
AP900305-0241 	X	The stock market retreated today, giving up some of last week's gains. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials, up more than six points at midmorning, was off 14.19 at 2,646.17 by 3 p.m. on Wall Street. The average climbed 96.17 points last week. Losers outnumbered gainers by about 4 to 3 in the overall tally of New York Stock Exchange-listed issues, with 630 up, 845 down and 478 unchanged. Analysts said recent hopes persisted that the economy might avert a recession and start growing at a revived rate as the year passed. But traders also appeared edgy over the interest-rate outlook, especially if business activity should pick up. Rates rose in early trading in the credit markets today. American Express fell 1~ to 27{ in active trading and Shearson Lehman Hutton was down | at 11~. Over the weekend American Express announced plans to reacquire the publicly held shares of Shearson through an exchange of stock. Other losers among the blue chips included American Telephone & Telegraph, down { at 39~; General Motors, down \ at 45}; General Electric, down &rsqb; at 62, and Exxon, down \ at 46{. The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks dropped .93 to 184.04. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index was up .19 at 356.31. Volume on the Big Board came to 115.97 million shares with an hour to go.
AP880428-0012 	X	Four Hollywood unions spent $6.8 million on treatment for 138 AIDS patients by early this year, but a representative of producers and studios says the problem is no worse than in other industries. Nicholas Counter III, president of the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers, said Wednesday he was sure that the figures from union health insurance funds were ``understated'' because some AIDS insurance claims may be reported as related diseases rather than AIDS. Counter's remarks represent the first time anyone has attempted to compile statistics on the number of AIDS patients whose care is being paid by health insurance funds serving the entertainment industry's five major unions. But he dismissed fears that AIDS can be spread by casual contact, including on movie and television filming sets, and said he was convinced the deadly disease, which cripples the body's immune system, cannot be spread by so-called ``deep kissing'' by actors and actresses. ``I don't see that this problem is any worse or any less in our industry than in all industries,'' Counter said at a conference titled ``Managing AIDS at Work.'' He urged entertainment unions and companies to ``wage war on this disease on four fronts'' _ education, prevention, research and care. The insurer providing coverage for one of the industry's five funds _ the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists (AFTRA) Health and Retirement Funds _ refused to provide statistics on the number of its 22,000 members who have AIDS or the cost of their care, said alliance government affairs specialist Dan Goldberg, who compiled the statistics for Counter. The 138 patients reported by mid-February and the $6,821,000 cost of caring for them represent statistics reported by insurance funds for the other four major Hollywood union health funds, Counter said. Scientists say acquired immune deficiency syndrome is spread by intimate sexual contact, the sharing of needles by intravenous drug abusers and when passed from mothers to their unborn children.
AP880625-0017 	X	They could have been cremation pits, cock-fighting rings, animal pens, Civil War foxholes or secret hiding places for moonshine equipment. Maybe they were prehistoric Indian burial sites, charcoal pits or foundations for native American abodes. Or maybe, some say, the stone circles dotting the western slope of Polish Mountain encircled apple trees in the early 1900s. For more than a decade, 150 to 200 circles of sandstone rock have puzzled area residents and archaelogists. Virtually hidden by brush and poison ivy, the gray-colored rocks of various shapes and sizes are neatly arranged in circles. No one knows their purpose, or who put them there. ``Everybody that goes up there has some kind of weird theory,'' said John Mash, manager of Green Ridge State Forest, where the circles are found. ``One guy even mentioned that they could have been sweat lodges _ like a Turkish bath. ``The Indians would have these rituals when they would go into manhood,'' he said. ``They would go in these buildings with hot rocks and put water on them _ something like a sauna.'' But 150 to 200 saunas on one hillside in western Maryland? Mash said rangers noticed the stone rings in the early 1970s. In 1975, Mash contacted State Archaeologist Tyler J. Bastian, who visited the site and put the circles on a list of archaeological areas in Maryland. But it was not until last year that some archaelogists and volunteers excavated one of the circles. ``They did the dig and found zip, except for the rattlesnakes,'' Mash said. Hoping to uncover clues, another group conducted a dig this spring. ``In a nutshell, we didn't discover anything. They still remain a mystery,'' said Charles McVeigh Jr., a member of the Western Maryland Archaeological Society. ``We dug out in the center of them. We didn't go down very far before we got to bedrock. We found no artifacts. We found nothing to indicate prehistoric use.'' No future digs are planned, and two local archaeologists who took an interest in the circles, Robert D. Wall and Connie Huddleston, both have moved from Maryland. Neither could be reached for comment recently. Meanwhile, the state forest has put the circles on its historic preservation list to ensure the five-acre tract remains untouched, Mash said. The site could be eligible for the National Register of Historic Places if additional information could be found to document the age of the rings, their use and significance. Mash has dismissed the moonshine theory because there is no nearby water source needed to make moonshine. He said he did not think they were cock-fighting rings because only one pit is needed to hold a fight. And the rings are too close together to have been foxholes during the Civil War, he said. ``The site has no strategic value,'' Mash said. ``(And) the guy in the middle foxhole is going to be shooting his own pals before he can get his bullet out to hit the bad guys.'' Until someone conjures up a more believable theory, Mash said he puts the most stock in the orchard theory _ that someone placed the stones around apple trees that once grew in the area. There were 1 million apple trees in Green Ridge by 1914, he said. ``It is possible that they hired immigrants who could not understand directions given in English and some of them were told to clear the rocks away to plant the apple trees,'' he suggested. ``They were new in America and wanted to do a nice, neat job, so they put these rocks in nice neat little circles and left a space in the middle for the tree. And they might have worked on these for a couple of days, or a week until somebody stopped them. That could be a theory ...''
AP901210-0245 	X	Lawrence Iason, head of the Securities and Exchange Commission's New York Regional Office - the Wall Street watchdog agency's largest and busiest - is resigning to return to private law practice effective March 15. Iason, who took over the New York office Jan. 25, 1988, said today he told SEC Chairman Richard Breeden last week he planned to leave government service to return to his old law firm. ``The time has come. I'm ready to go back to private practice,'' Iason said in a telephone interview from his office in Manhattan. He will be a partner at the New York firm of Morvillo, Abramowitz and Grant. Otto Obermaier, the U.S. attorney in Manhattan, is a former partner in the firm. As regional administrator of the New York office, Iason presided over several key investigations including the Business Week insider trading cases stemming from leaks of upcoming market sensitive stories and an administrative action against the brokerage firm Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corp. that led to a $5.6 million settlement for alleged misuse of customer accounts. Perhaps more significantly, Iason took over an office in disarray after one regional administrator left suddenly in 1987 and officials from SEC headquarters in Washington ran the office on an acting basis. One of them, William McLucas, now heads the SEC's Enforcement Division. ``I'm sorry to see him go. I think what he did with that office is remarkable,'' McLucas said of Iason. Iason, 45, is a 1967 Yale graduate who got his law degree in 1971 at New York University. He clerked for a federal judge, served in the Watergate special prosecutor's office and the U.S. attorney's office in New York before joining his former law firm for the first time in 1979. As head of the regional office he oversaw a staff of 250 that includes, secretaries, investigators and lawyers. A native of Hewlett, N.Y., Iason now lives with his wife and three children in Mamaroneck, N.Y.
AP900227-0126 	X	Police interviewed witnesses Tuesday to track down the man who shot to death Cornelius Gunter, lead vocalist for The Coasters. The '50s group's hits included ``Charlie Brown'' and ``Love Potion No.9.'' Gunter, inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1987, was the second member of the '50s group to die in a shooting in the Las Vegas area. Witnesses told police that Gunter's car was parked at an intersection in a residential area of the adjoining city of North Las Vegas on Monday and a thin black man was standing on the driver's side, talking to Gunter. ``They apparently got into a loud argument,'' said North Las Vegas Police Lt. Gary Rainey. ``People heard a couple of shots. Then the car took off, went about a block, then hit a block wall.'' Gunter, who was scheduled to perform this weekend, was found slumped over the steering wheel, with two gunshot wounds in his chest. ``It appears he was shot through the windshield and he was dead on the scene. We don't have a motive at this time,'' said Rainey. The suspect was seen running from the intersection with a gun in his hand, Rainey said. Rainey said Gunter, a Las Vegas resident, had no police record other than some traffic citations in North Las Vegas. Gunter, a tenor, joined The Coasters in 1957, two years after the group was formed in Los Angeles. Their comic vocals resulted in a string of wise-cracking do-wop hits in the late 1950s. With a flurry of hits that included ``Yakety Yak'' in 1957 and ``Charlie Brown,'' ``Along Came Jones'' and ``Poison Ivy'' in 1959, The Coasters were the country's most popular black rock 'n' roll group at the end of the decade. Among their other hits were ``Framed,'' ``Idol with the Golden Head,'' and ``Shoppin' for Clothes.'' Their last chart appearance was in 1971 with ``Love Potion No. 9.'' With varying personnel, Gunter kept the group on the concert circuit in the 1980s, including the current ensemble known as Cornell Gunter and His Coasters. Various band members headed separate groups billed as The Coasters in recent years. Gunter and The Coasters were scheduled to perform at the Lady Luck Hotel this weekend, said Janice Mazuroski, a hotel spokeswoman. ``It's a sad situation. He was so well liked in the industry,'' she said. The other Coaster slain, Nathaniel ``Buster'' Wilson was shot in the head in April 1980. His dismembered body was dumped near Hoover Dam and in a canyon near Modesto, Calif. Patrick Cavanaugh was convicted in the slaying and is now on Nevada's death row. Prosecutors speculated that Wilson was shot because he was going to tell police about a fraud scheme in which Cavanaugh was allegedly involved.
AP900102-0089 	X	Keep an eye on the speedometer when driving through this village _ or be prepared to reach for your wallet and join thousands of people ticketed in 1989. National City, with just 70 residents, has 12 officers to patrol the one-mile stretch of Illinois Route 3 that bisects the village. Last year, National City police wrote more than 5,000 traffic tickets and earned more than $122,000 for the village coffers _ one-quarter of the overall budget. The 35 mph limit is posted on at least eight signs on each side of the road, Assistant Police Chief Jim Farrell said Tuesday. ``You can hardly call it a speed trap, because the speed limit is well posted,'' he said. The Illinois Department of Transportation estimates 8,700 cars daily pass through National City, which is across the Mississippi River from St. Louis and home to the National Stockyards Co. livestock complex and related businesses. ``It's sort of like a racetrack out there at times,'' Farrell said. ``We try to keep the traffic speed down and keep somebody from getting killed.'' Police began closely monitoring the highway five or six years ago after residents complained about the number of accidents, Farrell said. County records show National City police wrote 5,091 traffic tickets from Jan. 1 through Dec. 28, 1989. Most drivers were ticketed for speeding, although some were cited for multiple violations. Those citations accounted for nearly 8.5 percent of the 60,000 moving-violation traffic tickets issued last year in St. Clair County, which has a population of 265,000, said Barney Metz, county court clerk. State Police Capt. Bobby Henry, area commander, said he was surprised by the high number of tickets issued in National City. ``That's not a negative comment,'' he said. ``For a small department, they're obviously out there working to get that many citations.'' Route 3 has a 30 mph limit as it enters National City from East St. Louis. The speed limit then goes up to 35 mph, and stays there as the road leaves National City. Police Chief Edward Daubach said tickets aren't issued unless drivers exceed the limit by at least 10 mph. Village Clerk Kathryn Kuecker said National City's annual budget is about $400,000 to $450,000, with most of the revenue coming from property and sales taxes. St. Clair County is one of the state's most impoverished. ``We really don't know how much would come in in a given year'' from traffic tickets, Kuecker said Tuesday. However, the minimum penalty for a moving violation in Illinois is $50, of which local authorities keep $24; that would mean National City received more than $122,000 from the tickets issued last year. The village, with five full-time and seven part-time officers, is patrolled at all times by two officers in one car who use a radar detector. Officers have heard their share of excuses from speeders, Farrell said. ``We had one guy tell us he was in a hurry to go home and take his medicine,'' he said.
AP881103-0210 	X	PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti (AP) _ Radio stations on Thursday announced the contents of a draft decree proposed by Haiti's military rulers, which says a government-appointed Electoral College will run elections and write an electoral law. The draft decree said the Electoral Board, made up of nine government-appointed representatives, one from each of Haiti's provinces, will also control voter registration and arbitrate disputes between candidates, Radio Haiti Inter said. The decree bears the names of Haitian ruler Lt. Gen. Prosper Avril and all 12 Cabinet ministers, the station said. ``The draft project is quite simply anti-constitutional; a scheme to get around the constitution,'' said Dr. Louis Roy, co-author of the constitution massively approved by Haitians in a 1987 referendum. The 1987 constitution, considered the most liberal in Haiti's 184-year history, provides for an independent electoral council, appointed by institutions such as the Roman Catholic Church, human rights groups and journalists associations. ``It is not possible to restore the constitution by anti-constitutional means. In Avril's version of the electoral institution, the executive names the members, and deprives it thereby of its independence,'' Roy said. After he was appointed president by soldiers who ousted Lt. Gen. Henri Namphy on Sept. 17, Avril promised to respect the constitution, human rights, and return Haiti to democracy. Avril told opposition politicians that elections could not be held for at least another two years. The government delivered copies of the draft decree to several radio stations, political parties and professional groups in Port-au-Prince, asking for comments and suggestions, which may be incorporated into the decree before it is made into law by the military government, Radio Haiti Inter said. Namphy had suspended the constitution, saying it was inspired by foreign ideas. Soldiers said they ousted Namphy because they were sickened by unpunished acts of terrorism and state-sponsored violence. Namphy abolished the independent Electoral Council on Nov. 29 hours after thugs protected by soldiers shot and hacked to death at least 36 voters, in what would have been Haiti's first truly free election. An attempt by Namphy to override the independent council and rewrite the electoral law in June 1987 touched off a wave of anti-government protests and strikes, which left over 30 dead and dozens wounded. Namphy replaced dictator Jean-Claude Duvalier, who fled to France in February 1986.
AP900209-0204 	X	An official said on Friday that a Chinese smuggler paid a U.S. immigration agent up to $1 million to allow more than 200 Chinese emigrants into the United States by way of the Virgin Islands. At a detention hearing, Magistrate Jeffrey Resnick ordered jailed without bail inspector Juanito Creque of the Immigration and Naturalization Service; Leonard Y. Hu, the alleged smuggler, and five illegal immigrants. Creque and Hu are charged with conspiracy to smuggle illegal aliens across a U.S. border. Hu is charged with bribery and Creque with accepting a payoff. U.S. Attorney Terry Halpern said in asking for their detention, ``They are international travelers with connections in many foreign points along the route used to bring Red Chinese from mainland China to St. Croix and St. Thomas.'' Customs agent Ramon Davila, who posed undercover as a co-conspirator during the investigation, said in an affidavit that the aliens traveled to the Virgin Islands by way of Hong Kong, London and the West Indies island of Antigua. Davila said Hu paid Creque $5,000 each _ or up to $1 million _ for more than 200 illegal Chinese immigrants Creque allowed to enter the Caribbean territory and continue on to the the mainland United States last year. Davila said Hu paid him $15,000 in bribes to allow five Chinese safe passage to the United States in November. He said in the affidavit that Hu and the five aliens were kept under surveillance and traced to a restaurant on Mott Street, in New York City's Chinatown district. Hu, Creque and six others were arrested this week at St. Thomas airport as the aliens were trying to travel to New York. The six others _ Antiguans Everton Coates and his wife Millentine, and Chinese Tong Xiang Yang, Zhou Tu Ni, Jufoi Wu and Dian Min Zheng _ were charged with conspiracy and entry without inspection. According to Davila's affidavit, Coates was the Antiguan contact and his wife coordinated the alien shipment and was in communication with Creque. Mrs. Coates was released on $35,000 property bond. All the other remained in jail. A trial date has not been set.
AP901205-0108 	X	A group of legislators today demanded imposition of a state of emergency and a freeze on all political parties and parliaments to help pull the Soviet Union out of its political and economic crisis. The group, which included the right-wing Soyuz group of parliamentarians as well as the reformist Liberal-Democratic Party, all but called for a military coup as a means of solving the nation's problems. The group's leaders announced the legislators were forming a National Salvation Committee and demanded transfer of power to it, the state news agency Tass and the independent news agency Interfax reported. The committee asked the army to help implement the plan, calling the military, ``the sole force still resisting the disintegration of the state,'' Interfax reported. Vladimir Zhirinovski, a leader of the Liberal-Democratic Party and spokesman for the committee, said in a telephone interview that the coalition represented 400 lawmakers in the 2,250-member Congress of Peoples' Deputies. Sentiment for a crackdown also is widespread in the Communist Party, which holds a majority in most of legislative bodies on the national and local level. Many Communists want President Mikhail S. Gorbachev to call a state of emergency and enforce it through the armed forces and the KGB security police. The National Salvation Committee seemed to have the same goals, although its goals were not spelled out clearly during the news conference its leaders called today to announce the group's existence. With all but one of the 15 Soviet republics seeking some form of independence or autonomy from central government, many officials fear for the very structure of the Soviet Union. The Soviet economy also is crumbling as the old command system is failing and grocery shelves in major cities are bare. Across the capital, Russian Federation President Boris Yeltsin harshly warned military officers at the Dzerzhinsky Military Academy that ``if the army enters our boiling society as an active factor, confrontation will increase many times, and carry the society to catastrophe.''
AP900920-0037 	X	The sweet smell of success is wafting from the city's trash, with more than 100,000 New Yorkers applying for jobs as sanitation workers. It's a record turnout of applicants for any city job, officials said Wednesday, and at least one of them thinks he knows why. ``For somebody who likes the outdoors, it's a good, clean living,'' said Sanitation Department spokesman Vito Turso. ``You can build up your muscles, and then get them tanned.'' Sure. But what makes people look at garbage and see gold? Try $23,104 per year to start, with the salary climbing to $35,000 after five years. Add in overtime, and a likely raise with the next city contract, and it's obvious all that smells doesn't necessarily stink. The job requirements are minimal: a driver's license and a strong back. The work week is 35 hours, with the shift running from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m.; summer hours let workers out at 2 p.m. As with most city jobs, there are comprehensive benefits. Negatives? The average city sanitation worker lifts five tons of garbage per day, the rough equivalent of two Toyotas. And the odds of bagging a position are 50-to-1. As of Wednesday, 102,000 people had registered to take the written test this Saturday. Of those who pass, 15,000 will be selected randomly by computer and given the physical test. Eventually, 2,000 will be hired over the next four years, city budgets permitting. Virtually all are expected to pass the written test, which is basically trash-specific. ``It's mostly reading comprehension. They receive manuals on operating the trucks and safety, and the questions deal with that,'' Turso explained. ``For example, which button do you push to start the truck? Button A. Like that.'' When the test was last given in 1983, nearly 95 percent of the 88,000 applicants passed the written part. The physical test is a bit heavier. Potential trash-carriers last time had 27 minutes to load 147 sacks of simulated garbage - 2,975 pounds worth - into a hopper set at the height of a garbage truck. Each applicant has paid a $15 fee to take the written test despite the long odds. Other than that, they might have little in common: the applicants cross all lines of sex and age, with potential employees coming from all walks of life, Turso said. ``We've had individuals come out in their 50s, gray haired, grandchildren in tow,'' said Turso. ``And some of them have actually been called up.''
AP880728-0130 	X	The city commission has approved a measure that urges a ban on ``The Last Temptation of Christ,'' a movie one commissioner called ``garbage'' because of its fictional portrayal of Jesus. The 3-2 vote by the commission in this well-to-do Orlando suburb asks Universal Pictures not to distribute the film unless it is changed ``to eliminate the fictional material which defames the character of Jesus Christ.'' It also urges theaters to reject the film, and asks residents to contact the filmmakers and express their opposition. ``This is the type of garbage they want to put in our movie theaters,'' said Commissioner Tom Ivey, who proposed the resolution Tuesday. Ivey, who is running for a Florida House seat, said the script portrays Jesus as a weak, unstable man and a sinner. The film, tentatively set for release in September, has drawn criticism elsewhere. Last week, fundamentalist Christians picketed the home of MCA-Universal Chairman Lew Wasserman in Los Angeles. Publicist Catherine Leach of MCA Inc., parent company of Universal, said Wednesday that filmmaker Martin Scorcese ``firmly believes that this film is a religious affirmation of faith.'' She called efforts to prevent the film's release censorship.
AP880705-0208 	X	Today is Monday, July 11, the 193rd day of 1988. There are 173 days left in the year. Today's Highlight in History: On July 11, 1804, Vice President Aaron Burr mortally wounded former Treasury Secretary Alexander Hamilton in a pistol duel near Weehawken, N.J. On this date: In 1533, Pope Clement VII excommunicated England's King Henry VIII. In 1767, John Quincy Adams, the sixth president of the United States, was born in Braintree, Mass. In 1798, the U.S. Marine Corps was created by an act of Congress. In 1864, Confederate forces led by Gen. Jubal Early began their invasion of Washington D.C. In 1934, President Franklin D. Roosevelt became the first chief executive to travel through the Panama Canal, aboard the cruiser Houston. In 1955, the new U.S. Air Force Academy was dedicated at Lowry Air Base in Colorado. In 1974, the House Judiciary Committee released volumes of evidence it had gathered in its Watergate inquiry. In 1977, the Medal of Freedom was awarded posthumously to the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. in a White House ceremony. In 1979, the abandoned U.S. space station Skylab made a spectacular return to Earth, burning up in the atmosphere and showering debris over the Indian Ocean and Australia. In 1980, American hostage Richard I. Queen, freed by Iran after eight months of captivity because of poor health, left Tehran for Switzerland. In 1985, Nolan Ryan of the Houston Astros became the first pitcher in major league baseball to strike out 4,000 batters as he fanned Danny Heep of the New York Mets. Ten years ago: A tanker truck overfilled with propylene gas exploded on a coastal highway south of Tarragona, Spain, setting off a fireball that devastated a nearby campsite, killing 215 tourists as well as the driver. The National League downed the American League, 7-3, in baseball's 49th annual All-Star Game. Five years ago: The Reagan administration filed its first school desegregation suit, charging that Alabama's public colleges and universities were practicing racial segregation. One year ago: Australian Prime Minister Bob Hawke won a third consecutive term, becoming the first Labor Party leader in the country's history to be elected to three straight terms in office. Today's Birthdays: Actor Tab Hunter is 57. Singer Bonnie Pointer is 37. Boxer Leon Spinks is 35. Thought for Today: ``History is written by the winners.'' _ Alex Haley, American author.
AP900517-0234 	X	The red-cockaded woodpecker, once common in the Southeast, still ranges from Texas to the Carolinas, but is found mainly in isolated populations on federal lands. The birds live in small flocks, called clans, boring nesting holes in living pine trees about 60 or more years old. The cluster of trees where the woodpeckers roost is called a colony. According to the U.S. Forest Service, the greatest numbers of known active colonies are found in the Appalachicola National Forest in Florida, with 693, the Kisatchie National Forest in Louisiana, with 314, and the Francis Marion National Forest in South Carolina, where the number dropped after Hurricane Hugo from 487 in 1988 to an estimated 320 to 340 today. Other national forests: Talladega (Ala.), 162 active colonies; Sam Houston (Texas), 133; Bienville (Miss.), 88; Oseola (Fla.), 50; Croatan (N.C.), 45; Angelina-Sabine (Texas), 34; Davy Crockett (Texas), 27; Homochitto (Miss.), 26; DeSoto (Miss.), 18; Ouachita (Ark.), 16; Conecuh (Ala.), 16; Ocala (Fla.), 14; Daniel Boone (Ky.), 6; Cherokee (Tenn.), 1; Oconee (Ga.), 1; Tuskegee (Ala.), 1.
AP900927-0163 	X	The Senate Judiciary Committee approved the nomination of New Hampshire jurist David H. Souter to the Supreme Court on Thursday with but one dissenting vote. The full Senate is expected to confirm him easily when it votes next Tuesday, the day after the court begins its session. Democrats as well as Republicans on the committee said they saw in President Bush's nominee a brilliant legal scholar and a man of good temperament and integrity. In the 13-1 vote, only Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., opposed him, saying he feared Souter would ``solidify a 5-4 anti-civil-rights, anti-privacy majority.'' Howell Heflin, a conservative Alabama Democrat whose opposition helped kill the 1987 Supreme Court nomination of Robert Bork, said he liked Souter's ``clearheaded approach'' and lack of an ideological agenda. Added Howard Metzenbaum, D-Ohio: ``My sense is that David Souter is a fair and open-minded jurist who knows well the weight of the responsibilities which will be placed upon him,'' Bush hailed the committee action and repeated his request that the Senate ``act as quickly as possible to confirm this man'' so he could be seated when the court begins its new session. But Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell announced Thursday night that he and Republican leaders agreed to hold the confirmation vote on Souter on Tuesday. The Jewish holiday Yom Kippur which was interrupting Congress' schedule Friday. And Biden and other Democrats were loathe to waive rules that give senators time before voting to review a committee's findings. Souter, 51, in a statement released in New Hampshire, thanked committee leaders and members ``for their courtesy and consideration. I am gratified by their action. I await the decision of the full Senate.'' Earlier, Tom Rath, like Souter a former New Hampshire attorney general, said Souter heard of the panel's action on a radio in Rath's law office. ``To get this kind of overwhelming support makes us feel very good,'' Rath said, adding that Souter would issue his separate statement as soon as the White House approved it. The lopsided vote did not show the widespread unease on the committee caused by Souter's refusal to state his positions on abortion and other critical issues before the court. ``Judge Souter is not the sort of judge I would nominate if I were president,'' said committee chairman Joseph Biden, D-Del., a supporter of abortion rights. Souter ``just barely'' met his criteria, Biden said. ``But I think that he is about the best we can expect'' from Bush, who opposes abortion rights, he said. ``Aspects of Judge Souter's testimony were of little comfort to legal conservatives including this senator,'' said Gordon Humphrey, R-N.H., in a statement released at the committee session. ``But we recognize that the president is entitled to considerable deference in his choice for the Supreme Court.'' Humphrey's New Hampshire colleague, Warren Rudman, a Republican not on the Budget Committee who has been Souter's mentor and Senate champion, said he was pleased with the vote and not disturbed by the reservations expressed by some members. ``That's normal,'' Rudman said. ``Those are people whoare obviously concerned about staking out political grounds for the future and I can understand that.'' Democrats who supported Souter expressed faith that he was as open-minded on women's rights and other issues as he professed to be. But Kennedy refused to go along. ``I am troubled that... he will solidify a 5-4 anti-civil-rights, anti-privacy majority inclined to turn back the clock on the historic progress of recent decades,'' Kennedy said. ``I hope I am wrong. But I fear I am right,'' Kennedy said. ``The lesson of the past decade ... is that we must vote our fears, not our hopes.'' ``I hope I'm not wrong,'' said Metzenbaum, usually a Kennedy ally, in revealing his affirmative vote. Kennedy won't be quite so alone when the nomination comes before the full Senate. Five other Democrats had announced their opposition to the nomination by Thursday, mostly based on the abortion issue. Molly Yard, president of the National Organization for Women, attended Thursday's committee meeting and said afterward: ``I tremble for the women of the United States.'' Senate Republicans urged the majority Democrats to schedule a full Senate vote before Monday. ``If we delay for only three days there will be a dozen cases in which he cannot participate,'' said Sen. Alan K. Simpson, R-Wyo., the deputy GOP leader. The court planned to hear arguments on four cases on each of the first three days next week.
AP880330-0184 	X	The Treasury Department announced Wednesday it was selling $2.56 billion in 20-year bonds to the government of Mexico as part of an innovative effort to help solve that country's debt problems. Mexico will pay $492 million in cash for the zero-coupon bonds, so-called because they are sold at a deep discount from the face amount and pay no interest until they mature. The sale of the U.S. securities was the final step in an innovative procedure unveiled last December. Mexico sought to induce foreign banks to forgive a portion of their loans by offering, in exchange, smaller quantities of Mexican government bonds that would be backed by collateral consisting of U.S. Treasury securities. Banks were asked to bid for the bonds, offering to cancel their loans at a discount. Backers of the plan had hoped to reduce Mexico's debt burden by up to $10 billion, but when the bids were opened on March 2, the amount of debt reduction amounted to a disappointing $1.1 billion. The Mexican Finance Ministry rejected nearly half of the bids it received as insufficient. The bids accepted would retire $3.66 billion in debt at an average discount of 67.66 cents on the dollar, offering $2.56 billion worth of Mexican bonds in exchange. The $2.56 billion in zero-coupon bonds sold by U.S. Treasury on Wednesday will be used as collateral to back up the Mexican bonds.
AP880515-0013 	X	A great white shark, one of the few known man-eaters, swam into a commercial fishing net in Southern California's coastal waters, a television station reported Saturday. The 13-foot, 1,500-pound shark was displayed when the vessel docked Saturday at Terminal Island in the Los Angeles harbor. Anthony Tibich, skipper of the Aggressor, had ventured out Friday on an overnight trip to San Clemente Island in search of commercially marketable shark, according to a report by KNBC-TV in Burbank. But the skipper was surprised to find tangled in the fishing net Friday morning the huge type of shark featured in the ``Jaws'' movies attacking surfers and swimmers, the report said. Sightings of the great white shark are unusual in Southern California's warmer coastal waters. San Clemente Island is about 75 miles southwest of Los Angeles. Reports of a great white shark sighting on Thursday led Orange County authorities to evacuate about 2,000 swimmers along a 5{-mile shore at Newport Beach. The beaches were reopened Friday.
AP900718-0068 	X	Richard Sagness has a double-dipped career _ during the school year he's a college professor but during the summer he's a scooper. That's why they call him Dr. Ice Cream. ``It's a real tough way to spend the summer,'' Sagness chuckled as he leaned over his ice cream cart at downtown Pocatello's Simplot Square. ``I suppose some people think it's beneath my dignity to be doing this, but I think that's nonsense.'' Sagness, who trains the teachers of tomorrow as a professor in Idaho State University's College of Education, says he's not in it for the money. He does it, he says, to help his wife keep her cool. ``He's doing this very willingly,'' maintained Donna Sagness, who owns the local ice cream shop. But she conceded the cart has been a good way to keep her husband out of trouble. ``He's worth what I pay him, which is nothing,'' she said. ``He's good with the cart, but we have to watch him when he's in the store. He'll eat everything, including the flavors that nobody else will eat, like brandied fruitcake.'' Sagness admits his love of ice cream, especially when it's free, keeps him on the job. ``When I was a kid, I worked at a soda fountain. The owner said, `Eat all you want, because eventually you'll get tired of it,''' he recalled. ``I was his only employee that never got tired of it.''
AP880531-0297 	X	The Supreme Court ruled today that the bulk of so-called ``gray market'' goods are legal, giving a green light to a big part of a multi-billion-dollar business that allows consumers to buy costly, brand-name imports at steep discounts. In another case, the court ruled that states sometimes may execute convicted murderers even if theirright to a lawyer's help was violated. In constitutional splintered voting, the justices upheld parts of U.S. Customs Service regulations that permit gray market products into the country without approval from trademark owners. The court also struck down part of the Customs Service rules, thereby limiting somewhat the availability of the discount goods. But some justices said those rules only apply to a small part of the dispute decided today. The exact size of the gray market is unclear. Estimates have ranged from $5 billion to $10 billion a year. The declining value of the dollar, reducing its purchasing power abroad, may have dampened the market. But the business still appears to be thriving. Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, writing for the court, said a keyersity of Georgia's College of Veterinary Medicine. Nettles helped write the USDA report and is formulating regulations to use as a model for state governments. ``There are disease implications. There are human safety implications, which make the headlines read big _ a kid gets eaten by a polar bear in New York. And there's the escape factor, which from a naturalist point of view is very important.'' But the debate between exotic animal dealers and animal rights activists rages most fiercely over the moral issue. Is is right or wrong to put wild animals in a cage? And does captivity ensure a species' survival or hasten its death? ``I believe animals are here for our use, but not our abuse,'' says Hoctor. ``There's nothing wrong with owning a pair of ostrich boots if we're culling ostrich males. However, if in our smug admiration of ourselves we rape nature and make those animals endangered so we can have a pair of ostrich boots, that's wrong.'' Others believe there is no reason to exploit a wild animal when there are plenty of domestic animals that already provide companionship, food and warmth. ``That type of thinking _ justifying the exploitation of animals by juding them as an economic resource _ is going to lead to more and more species becoming endangered,'' says Herbet. ``Animals have an intrinsic value and ecological value. You shouldn't have to put a dollar value on it to ensure its survival.''
AP900210-0021 	X	The Galileo spaceship swooped past Venus early Saturday, and the cloud-shrouded planet acted as a gravity slingshot to help hurl the craft toward its 1995 rendezvous with Jupiter. Engineers at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory received a radio signal confirming that the 2.8-ton spacecraft made its closest approach to Venus at 12:59 a.m. EST, cruising 10,028 miles above the planet's hellishly hot surface. ``We have just flown through our closest approach point to Venus,'' said Bill O'Neil, science and mission design manager. ``The greatest challenge of getting Galileo to Jupiter has been met.'' Four hours before the close encounter, radio signals received on Earth confirmed the spacecraft computer ordered Galileo's infrared light sensor to start observing Venus. The instrument was looking for the glow of the hot lower atmosphere backlighting cooler clouds overhead, O'Neil said. That started an eight-hour period of intensive photography and measurements, including a photographic search for lightning. Earlier Friday, Galileo studied dust particles and magnetic fields in space, and measured Venusian atmospheric temperatures. ``The Venus encounter is our first major milestone in the mission,'' said Galileo project scientist Torrence Johnson. ``After the encounter, we have gained enough energy out of this celestial billiard shot to get the energy we need to make it all the way to Jupiter.'' The power the spacecraft gains in the flyby is triple the energy of its propellant supply, said mission director Neal Ausman. The $1.35 billion mission will let Galileo examine Earth, its moon and one or two asteroids before the spacecraft separates into an orbiter and a small probe in July 1995. In December 1995, they arrive at Jupiter, the solar system's largest planet, after a 2.4-billion-mile trip, including 182 million miles to reach Venus. Galileo was deployed from the space shuttle Atlantis last Oct. 18. Venus circles the sun between the orbits of Earth and Mercury, the closest planet to the sun. Acid-laden clouds extend 40 miles above the surface, trapping heat in a runaway ``greenhouse effect'' that raised surface temperatures to 900 degrees Fahrenheit. Atmospheric pressure is 90 times that on Earth. Venus is about 95 percent as wide as Earth. Scientists suspect it may have active volcanoes and shifting plates on its crust. The Venus flyby was designed purely to give Galileo a boost for its trip to Jupiter by increasing its speed from 83,750 mph to 88,740 mph. In two other ``gravity assist'' maneuvers, the spacecraft will use the Earth as a slingshot next Dec. 8 and again on Dec. 8, 1992, so it will be properly aimed toward Jupiter, Ausman said. Scientists decided to take advantage of the Venus encounter by having Galileo's camera and instruments make photographs and measurements of Venus starting Thursday night and continuing for a week. But almost all the pictures and data _ stored on three tracks of Galileo's four-track tape recorder _ won't be sent back to Earth until October, when the spacecraft is close enough to transmit the material with its low-gain antenna. That antenna now can be used only for communications to keep Galileo operating. Galileo's main umbrella-shaped antenna must remain furled to protect it from sunlight until after the craft makes its first flight past Earth. Galileo was programmed to photograph Venus and study the planet with its ultraviolet, infrared and visible light sensors to look for lightning, study the makeup of the carbon dioxide atmosphere, examine cloud and wind patterns, map cloudtop temperatures and peer at the lower atmosphere. Sensors that detect particles and magnetic fields were programmed to study how solar wind interacts with Venus' atmosphere. At the same time, NASA arranged for the Pioneer Venus Orbiter, circling Venus since 1978, to make similar measurements closer to the planet, Johnson said. While nearly 20 other U.S. and Soviet spacecraft have visited Venus, ``we think we're going to get some real good stuff,'' he said. But scientists won't know for months unless engineers meet success next week when they try to have Galileo send back a small amount of data, Johnson added. Studies from Earth and previous spacecraft indicate Venus has continent-sized highlands with peaks dwarfing Mount Everest and hundreds of thousands of volcanoes stretching across lowland plains. NASA's Magellan spacecraft, launched from Atlantis last May 4, will go into orbit around Venus in August. It will use radar to peer through the clouds and map at least 70 percent of Venus' surface during a $550 million mission. When the Galileo probe and orbiter reach Jupiter, the probe will parachute into the atmosphere and make measurements until intense heat and pressure vaporize it. The orbiter will photograph and study Jupiter and its major moons until late 1997, circling the planet instead of flying past it like the Pioneer and Voyager spacecraft. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration originally planned to send Galileo on a two-year trip to Jupiter by launching it with a Centaur rocket after it was released from a shuttle. But the 1986 explosion that destroyed Challenger and killed seven crew members raised safety concerns. NASA decided against using the volatile, liquid-fueled Centaur. So Galileo was launched with a much weaker Inertial Upper Stage booster after it was deployed by Atlantis' crew. The weaker rocket required NASA to redesign Galileo's route so the craft could utilize gravity from Venus and Earth for a much longer, looping trip to Jupiter. Environmentalists failed in court to stop NASA from having a shuttle carry Galileo into space. They feared a Challenger-like explosion could contaminate Florida with plutonium in Galileo's nuclear batteries, which are not reactors but generate electricity using heat from the radioactive decay of plutonium. NASA said the risk was minimal. Galileo is named for the Italian Renaissance astronomer who discovered Jupiter's major moons.
AP880517-0132 	X	Former President Carter described Democratic front-runner Michael Dukakis as ``highly competent'' on Tuesday and said Dukakis would fare well against Republican George Bush in the Nov. 8 general election. ``I know him well. He and I were governors together,'' said Carter, who was governor of Georgia from 1971 to 1975 and won the presidency in 1976. Carter said the Massachusetts governor ``is highly competent. I think among all the governors, he would be voted one of the top ones in administrative ability, in vision and competence and sound judgment.'' Carter said Dukakis' nomination was ``the obvious likelihood now'' and predicted ``he will do well'' against Bush. As a former Democratic president, Carter is a delegate to the convention in Atlanta this summer. He said it is still his intention to go to the convention as an uncommitted delegate because he told the candidates earlier that he would not choose among them until the convention.
AP881219-0037 	X	Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres indicated Israel would not exclude Palestine Liberation Organization chairman Yasser Arafat from future peace talks provided PLO declarations renouncing terrorism prove true. Peres did not name Arafat in a television interview Sunday, but said Israel was prepared to talk with ``every Palestinian, no matter what his biography was, if he is not shooting and killing.'' He said Israel will wait ``a month, a couple of months,'' to see if terrorism, including uprisings in the occupied territories, ends. Israeli officials have denounced the United States decision last week to hold a ``substantive dialogue'' with the PLO, strongly condemning a move that grants diplomatic credibility to a man Israelis accuse of masterminding a campaign of terror against the Jewish state. Terrorism played a large role in the first talks U.S. and PLO officials held in Tunis last week. The session took place after Arafat last week met American conditions that included recognition of Israel's right to exist and renunciation of terrorism. Peres, in the interview on CBS-TV's ``Face the Nation,'' appeared to step back from Israel's refusal to take part in talks that include Arafat. He linked such negotiations, however, to an end to violence in the occupied territories. Arafat, in speaking against terrorism, has not included the stone-throwing and other acts carried out by Palestinians under Israeli rule. So far, 332 Palestinians have died in the year-old clashes with Israeli soldiers, including three who were killed today. And despite the movement towards peace talks, statements from other PLO officials indicated violence was far from a thing of the past. Salah Khalaf, second in command Arafat in Fatah, the largest PLO group, meanwhile, told an Abu Dhabi news conference that Arafat's denunciation of terrorism last week ``did not include military attacks against Israel.'' ``Our struggle will continue until we raise the Palestinian flag over Jerusalem,'' he said. Peres said in the television interview, ``I shall say, very clearly, I am ready to sit with every Palestinian who is not engaged in terror, who is seeking peace and who wants to negotiate the peaceful solution with Israel.'' Asked whether that included sitting down with Arafat, he said, ``I am not ready to refer to a single person because I don't think that's the issue. But I am saying, in a very clear way, with every Palestinian, no matter what his biography used to be.'' Peres added he has ``doubts about Mr. Arafat.'' But he said, ``I am ready to sit with every Palestinian, no matter what his biography was ...'' ``If Mr. Arafat says, `I'm going to stop violence and terror,' okay, let's wait a month, a couple of months and see if this is really going to happen,'' Peres said. It was unclear from the comments whether that view would carry over into a new Israeli government. Talks between Peres' Labor Alignment and Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir's Likud Bloc over a new government have broken down, leaving Shamir aides talking about forming a new governing coalition with ultra-orthodox Jewish parties.
AP900125-0254 	X	Contracts settled through collective bargaining last year provided workers average annual wage increases of 3.3 percent over the life of the pacts, the government said today. The Labor Department said 1989 was the first time since 1981 that negotiated settlements provided larger wage adjustments than the contracts they replaced. The last time parties to 1989 settlements negotiated, usually in 1986 or 1987, average wage rate adjustments were 2.4 percent over the contract term. Wage restorations in steel and other industries, as well as wage gains for nurses, accounted for the difference, the agency said. Last year's 3.3 percent wage gains also were up from the 2.4 percent average wage gains contained in collective bargaining agreements settled in 1988. The collective bargaining report, like the Labor Department's broader Employment Cost Index report, showed workers in the fast-growing service sector winning larger wage gains than manufacturing workers. Service workers received an average of 3.5 percent hikes over the life of the contracts while manufacturing workers received 3.2 percent raises. The Labor Department said the 459 collective bargaining agreements it analyzed covered about 1.85 million workers. The government tracks agreements covering bargaining units with at least 1,000 workers. The government said 114 such contracts covering 743,000 workers had been expired or reopened in the last quarter but had not been settled or ratified by Dec. 31. About half of those workers are employed in railroads.
AP880330-0136 	X	The Reagan administration said today it is considering new sanctions against Panama to force the ouster of strongman Manuel Antonio Noriega, but it appeared no action was imminent. ``Other sanctions are being actively considered,'' said White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater. However, an administration official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said ``nothing's imminent.'' On Capitol Hill, meanwhile, two Republican lawmakers introduced legislation that calls on President Reagan to renegotiate the Panama Canal treaties to allow U.S. troops to remain in Panama past the year 2000. The canal treaties negotiated with Panama in 1979 provide for the transfer of the canal to Panama on Dec. 31, 1999. The legislation introduced by Rep. Robert Walker of Pennsylvania and New York Rep. Jerry Solomon would allow independent U.S. action to defend the canal as well as permit U.S. troops to remain in Panama past the year 2000. Separately, Sen. Alfonse M. D'Amato, R-N.Y., said today that Noriega's troops have harassed and beaten canal employees. ``There is a continuing pattern of escalation'' in Panamanian actions against the canal, he said in an interview on ABC-TV's ``Good Morning America.'' He did not elaborate. Beyond applying new sanctions, the administration is raising the prospect that the U.S. military may be used to protect the estimated 50,000 American citizens in Panama against possible harassment by that country's security forces. Fitzwater appeared to open the door to that possibility Tuesday after an incident the previous evening in which Panamanian troops confiscated the tapes of four U.S. television networks and briefly detained several American journalists. Discussing the harassment against Americans, Fitzwater said, ``It has always been a principle that we will protect American citizens as best we can and, while we have said that we don't plan to go in militarily, it's also important to note that there are limits.'' But when President Reagan met with senior advisers Tuesday afternoon to discuss the Panama situation, use of military force was not discussed, according to an administration official who asked not to be identified. The official said other options were discussed for bringing pressure to bear on Panamanian strongman Manuel Antonio Noriega, the de facto head of what the United States considers to be an illegal government. It was not clear whether Fitzwater's comments represented a genuine re-evaluation of U.S. policy or were part of the continuing war of nerves between the administration and Panama's military-dominated government. One major deterrent to military intervention is that any such move would generate a hostile reaction throughout Latin America. Most delegates attending a conference of Latin American representatives in Venezuela on Monday and Tuesday called for the U.S. to exercise restraint. In recent days, the administration has been weighing the possibility of imposing additional sanctions against Panama. U.S. officials, who asked not to be identified, said Reagan could invoke the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, which would give him broad discretionary authority to limit private U.S. transactions with Panama. One example would be the suspension of all air service between the two countries. Over the past month, administration actions have effectively cut off the flow of dollars into Panama, leaving the country near insolvency. Reagan has called on Noriega to step down. There was a new sense of urgency here Tuesday over signs of an accelerating deterioration of the situation in Panama. On Monday, thousands of anti-government demonstrators were routed by government forces with the help of shotguns, tear gas and water cannon. Witnesses said several people were injured and dozens arrested. Later, security agents forced their way at gunpoint into the offices of four American networks at a local hotel and confiscated tapes of the demonstration. Eight foreign journalists, including Americans, were detained for several hours before being released. Shortly before Fitzwater spoke, ousted Panamanian President Eric Arturo Delvalle, whose authority the United States continues to recognize, appealed for the creation of a U.S.-led international force to oust Noriega. Delvalle, who has spent the past month in hiding, made his appeal through Panama's ambassador, Juan B. Sosa, who has been acting as Delvalle's representative in Washington and has refused to relinquish the embassy to a replacement appointed by Panama's new government. While criticizing the violence used against Panamanian demonstrators, the focus of the remarks by both Fitzwater and State Department spokesman Charles Redman was on the harassment of the American journalists. Their comments evoked memories of Grenada when the United States and several friendly Caribbean nations sent forces into that country five years ago and ousted the leftist government there. The U.S. rationale was that hundreds of American medical students on the island faced potential danger. Fitzwater said, ``We are certainly concerned by this threat to Americans and find it a very difficult turn of events and one that is contrary to assurances that we have received in the past.''
AP900615-0164 	X	Torrential thunderstorms sent a flash flood surging through a valley into this Ohio River town, killing at least 11 people, leaving 51 missing and scores of others homeless Friday, authorities said. Raging floodwaters late Thursday swept homes off foundations and washed away cars. About 200 people were reported evacuated in central Ohio. ``The valleys are choked with debris,'' Gov. Richard Celeste told reporters after flying over the hilly Appalachian region in eastern Ohio. ``A wall of water wiped a path through the area.'' The governor declared a state of emergency, and dispatched about 50 National Guardsmen to the area. The Federal Emergency Management Agency declared Belmont County, which includes Shadyside, and Jefferson and Franklin counties disaster areas, making federal aid available to residents. Seventeen counties now have been declared disaster areas because of flooding or tornadoes since May 29. Ten bodies were taken to the Bauknecht Funeral Home in Shadyside, said Bob Bell, funeral director. One body was taken to Bellaire City Hospital, he said. Chuck Vogt, Belmont County coroner's investigator, also said there were 11 confirmed dead. Earlier, Fire Chief Mark Badia had said 14 adults and two children were dead. The names of the victims have not been released. County Sheriff Tom McCort, who said he was running the recovery effort, said 51 people in Shadysville and Meade Township, where the two creeks run south of the village, were missing as of 8:45 p.m. The list was compiled through telephone inquiries with townspeople and relatives and interviews with people evacuated from the area. About 200 people came and went from a Shadyside disaster center during the day, seeking news of missing friends and relatives. Vogt said two bodies were found in the Ohio River and one was found in a field next to the river after water receded. He said the rest were found in the creeks, which flow into the river. Some of the bodies were taken to a funeral home that set up a temporary morgue in Shadyside, about 10 miles south of Wheeling, W.Va. Officials from Ohio, West Virginia and the U.S. Coast Guard were searching the Ohio River for survivors and bodies, and Badia said National Guardsmen were to continue searching the creeks throughout the night. At least five houses along Wegee Creek were washed away, and two cars were floating in water in one of the basements. Anything that was still standing was covered with at least 6 feet of debris such as trees, appliances and furniture. The National Weather Service issued no flood warning before the disaster, although it did issue a flood watch, said Al Wheeler, deputy meteorologist in the bureau's Cleveland office. Weather service offices in Cleveland, Akron, Columbus and Pittsburgh showed the storm had diminished over eastern Ohio when it had actually intensified, Wheeler said. Thursday night's thunderstorms caused flash flooding across a wide area of central and eastern Ohio, northern West Virginia and western Pennsylvania. The floods closed roads, damaged homes and forced hundreds of people to evacuate. But no place was hit with anything approaching the ferocity of the flooding in Shadyside. About 5.5 inches of rain fell between 7:30 p.m. and 11 p.m., turning two Ohio River tributaries outside the village of 4,300 people into dangerous torrents. About 35 buildings, including a tavern, were damaged along Wegee Creek, and 50 buildings were hit by a flood along Pipe Creek, four miles south of Wegee Creek, said Dick Quinlin, Belmont County emergency services coordinator. Part of the tavern was washed away when water caved in the back wall, said Judy Phillips, a sheriff's department spokeswoman. She said two patrons were accounted for, but she could offer no estimate of how many were inside at the time. One man was found clinging to a bar stool, said state Sen. Robert Ney, whose district includes Shadyside. ``I've never seen anything of this magnitude. There was no warning,'' Ney said. Rescuers pulled people from three cars in Wegee Creek, which flows through Shadyside and into the Ohio River, said Badia. ``I don't know how to describe it. ... You've got to see it to believe it,'' Badia said. One resident, Robert Ramsey, said his wife, Rose, was crushed to death in their house by the water. There was no complete accounting of deaths, said Karen Bovek, a spokeswoman at a Shadyside Fire Department command center set up an a school. ``You're talking miles and miles of country roads that haven't been gotten to yet,'' she said. ``It's a disaster here.'' There also was flooding in Jefferson County, north of Belmont, in Licking County in central Ohio, and in northwestern West Virginia and western Pennsylvania. ``It's a pretty good mess, especially in the northern end of the county,'' said Clarence Weston, a dispatcher with the Marshall County Sheriff's Department in Moundsville, W.Va. ``We had 3.5 inches of rain in a two-hour period last night.'' Most of the problems in West Virginia were confined to road closures and basement flooding. At least 25 people were evacuated during the night in the Pittsburgh suburb of Etna, where some homes had up to 5 feet of water in their basements, said borough manager Bill Skertich. They returned to their homes Friday. Landslides were reported in the Pittsburgh area, and many city streets were closed during the storm. The flooding was more serious in Licking County, Ohio. Wayne Tresemer, the county's Disaster Services director, said water was standing up to 5 feet deep in some streets in the town of Newark, and the fire department and other agencies used boats to evacuate some residents. Two inches of rain caused flooding in Franklin County in central Ohio and 3.75 inches of rain was dumped on Holmes County in north-central Ohio, the National Weather Service said. In Jefferson County, just north of Belmont County in the eastern part of the state, 50 to 60 residents were evacuated in Adena, where water was 6 to 8 feet deep in streets because of creek flooding. Flood waters in most areas had subsided by Thursday night, according to authorities.
AP901013-0123 	X	Public approval of President Bush's handling of the economy and his handling of the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait dropped in recent weeks, according to a CBS News-New York Times poll released Saturday. Bush's 60 percent overall approval rating in the poll is the worst of his presidency, but still higher than that recorded for Presidents Reagan and Carter at the same point in their administrations. The poll found a majority of Americans still approves of Bush's actions in the Persian Gulf, but the 57 percent approval rating is down from 75 percent soon after the invasion. The poll found 34 percent disapproved of Bush's handling of Iraq. Asked to rate Bush's handling of the economy, 52 percent said they disapproved and 36 percent said they approved. In August, 45 percent approved of Bush's handling of the economy, and 44 percent disapproved. Amid heightened concern over Bush's handling of the economy and the budget deficit, 30 percent said they disapproved of his overall performance - the highest level of his presidency in the CBS-New York Times poll. The poll was conducted among a random sample of 960 adults around the United States interviewed by telephone Monday through Wednesday. Results of such a poll should generally be accurate to within 3 percentage points in either direction.
AP900928-0079 	X	Four avant-garde theater performers are suing the National Endowment for the Arts, contending they were denied funds for political reasons. Karen Finley and Holly Hughes of New York, John Fleck of Los Angeles and Tim Miller of Santa Monica filed a lawsuit in federal court Thursday asking for the $23,000 grants for which they applied - or at least review of their applications. The suit, filed on the artists' behalf by the American Civil Liberties Union, claims the NEA ``violated their First Amendment rights by denying their applications for impermissible political reasons.'' Josh Dare, a spokesman for the NEA, said today that the agency had no immediate comment on the suit. Grants for the performance artists, known as the ``NEA Four'' in arts circles, received unanimous approval in February from a peer review board. But NEA chairman John E. Frohnmayer vetoed the grants on June 29, and last month rejected appeals of his decision by the artists. He was named as a defendant. When Frohnmayer vetoed the four grants, he refused to give any reasons, citing a longstanding policy against discussing grant rejections. In an unusual departure from that policy late in August, the NEA issued a statement saying that Frohnmayer decided against giving the four grants because the artists' work would not ``enhance public understanding and appreciation of the arts.'' Congress, at the urging of Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., last year amended the NEA appropriations bill for the current fiscal year to prohibit federal support for works that ``may be deemed obscene.'' The action came after controversy arose over exhibits by artists such as the late photographer Robert Mapplethorpe, whose work included sexual themes. The four who sued Thursday, each of whom had received NEA grants in the past, do monologues and other stage routines that generally deal with politics, racism and sexual oppression and frequently include strong sexual content. The performers had been singled out by conservative members of Congress as examples of the NEA's willingness to subsidize works that might be offensive.
AP900918-0251 	X	Corroon & Black Corp. on Tuesday rejected an unsolicited $840 million takeover bid from Aon Corp., saying it would proceed with its proposed merger with fellow insurer Willis Faber PLC of Britain. Corroon & Black said the planned stock-swap merger ``will serve the best interests of our shareholders, customers and employees.'' Aon, the holding company for the brokerage Rollins Burdick Hunter Group Inc., offered last week to buy Corroon & Black for $40 a share in cash, or about $840 million. Under the approved agreement, Corroon & Black stockholders would receive 7.8 Willis Faber shares for each Corroon & Black share, or $33.49 at current market prices, in a deal valued at $754 million. Corroon & Black shareholders are scheduled to vote on the merger with Willis Faber on Sept. 28. Aon officials could not be reached for comment Tuesday evening shortly after Corroon & Black issued its response. Corroon & Black stock closed at $35.50, down 37{ cents a share, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading Tuesday before the company's announcement. Aon said last week it would not pursue a bid opposed by the Corroon & Black board. Noting that statement, Corroon & Black said it ``has replied to Aon Corp. that it wishes to consider the matter closed and proceed with the merger with Willis Faber.'' Insurance industry analysts expected Corroon & Black to reject Aon's offer, but they said Aon might come back with a higher bid. Corroon & Black and Willis Faber are the world's fifth- and sixth-largest insurance brokerages, respectively. Their tentative merger, announced in early June, would allow both firms to expand in the other's home market and eventually move into continental Europe and the Pacific Rim. The new firm, Britain-based Willis Corroon PLC, was expected to have 1990 revenue of about $1 billion. It would create the world's fourth-largest insurance brokerage in terms of revenue. Corroon & Black has nearly all its business in the United States, while Willis Faber gets about 80 percent of its revenue from Britain. Corroon & Black sold its 29.9 percent interest in the British broker Minet Holdings PLC in February 1988. Aon has operations in the United States, Canada, Europe and the Pacific. Besides Rollins Burdick, its subsidiaries include Combined Insurance Co. of America and Union Fidelity Life Insurance Co.
AP880628-0162 	X	A car bomb believed planted by a left-wing terrorist group exploded Tuesday and killed the U.S. military attache in Greece, hurling his armor-plated car off the road, authorities said. U.S. Navy Capt. William Nordeen was driving to work when the blast threw his sedan across the small tree-lined street and lodged it in a steel fence, police said. The victim's body was found several yards away in the front yard of an abandoned house. There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the blast, but senior police officials said they believed it to be the work of November 17, a left-wing urban terrorist group blamed for 11 political assassinations in the past 13 years. The United States and Greece both condemned the bombing, which came a a crucial time in relations between the two countries. ``The United States condemns this terrorist outrage in the strongest possible terms,'' said chief Pentagon spokesman Dan Howard. ``It was a senseless and cowardly murder of a highly regarded U.S. military officer.'' Sotiris Kostopoulos, a spokesman for Foreign Minister Carolos Papoulias, said the Greek government voiced ``disgust at the murder.'' ``All Greeks, irrespective of their political leanings, unreservedly condemn the would-be underminers of the country's institutions and democratic normality,'' Kostopoulos told reporters at a news briefing. Police said the Toyota packed with explosives was parked 100 yards from Nordeen's two-story home in the northern suburb of Kifissia, where many American and foreign diplomats live. The blast shattered windows and blew out doors in surrounding houses. Trees, fences and walls were blacked by smoke after fire engulfed both cars. ``We heard a tremendous bang and the house rocked back and forth. Pieces of the car were thrown into our house,'' Panagia Kapodistria said. The car's twisted rear axle lay in her front yard. Nordeen, 51, of Centuria, Wis., was due to retire in August after 30 years in the Navy, said his sister, Carla Anderson. He had been stationed in Greece for three years. He previously served as assistant naval inspector in Washington, with the U.S. Fleet in the Pacific and at the Jacksonville, Fla., naval air base. He is survived by his wife and 12-year-old daughter. At the White House, presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the U.S. government would work with Greek authorities to ``bring the murderers to justice.'' A senior police officer, speaking on condition of anonymity, said he believed it was staged by November 17, named for the day in 1973 when troops crushed a student rebellion at Athens Polytechnic University against the right-wing dictatorship. ``I don't think anybody except November 17 had the expertise to pull off something like this,'' the officer said. A police explosives expert who refused to be identified said Tuesday's killing was ``perfectly planned and very well executed. ... They thought of every detail.'' The expert said bags of cement were piled against one side of the booby-trapped vehicle so the explosion's full force would be directed toward Nordeen's car. He said the blast probably was detonated by remote-controlled device. November 17 carried out a similar attack against the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency's local chief in January, but George Carros survived after the radio-controlled bomb in a trash can outside his home failed to go off. The group has claimed responsibility for 11 assassinations since 1975, including the 1983 shooting of U.S. Navy Capt. George Tsantes and the 1975 assassination of Richard Welch, CIA station chief in Athens. November 17 is named for the day in 1973 when troops crushed a student uprising against the 1967-74 Greek military dictatorship. Nordeen's killing came four days after Greek and American negotiators ended a seventh round of talks on a new U.S. bases agreement to replace an accord that expires Dec. 31, 1988. The talks ended without reports of significant progress. The United States has operated four military bases in Greece since the 1950s _ two near Athens and two on the island of Crete. The five-year accord expires in December 1988.
AP900221-0190 	X	President Bush hailed exiled Soviet conductor Mstislav Rostropovich as ``a national treasure'' on Wednesday as he welcomed the National Symphony home from its tour of the Soviet Union. ``Your orchestra's long-awaited trip to the Soviet Union reflects the drama of our changing world,'' Bush told Rostropovich at a White House reception. The president noted that Rostropovich had received ``ovation after ovation'' on his just-completed tour of the homeland he had been forced to leave in disgrace in 1974. Bush said the conductor and cello virtuoso had returned ``to a place he never really left'' in the Soviet tour. Rostropovich was stripped of his Soviet citizenship in 1978. He got in trouble with the communist authorities at the time for his vigorous defense of out-of-favor author Alexander Solzhenitsyn. His Soviet citizenship was restored last month and he was given an official apology under political reforms undertaken by Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev. Bush said the conductor of the Washington-based National Symphony was ``inded a national treasure and America is very proud of you.'' Before an audience that included members of the orchestra, Soviet Ambassador Yuri V. Dubinin and industrialist Armand Hammer, Bush said: ``Maestro, you are a true virtuoso, not only of music but of the heart and mind as well.'' Rostropovich then led a string section of 12 cellos in a performance of a work named ``Dodecacelli'' by American composer David Ott.
AP901210-0087 	X	Police killed a man once considered France's public enemy No. 1 during a robbery attempt at the home of an elderly widow, officials said Monday. A policeman was wounded in the abdomen in the exchange of gunfire Sunday night, and Jean-Charles Willoquet, 46, was killed by a bullet to the head, officials said. Willoquet was granted early release last year from a prison term imposed after he was convicted of attempted murder and hostage taking during a 1975 escape. On Sunday, he and an accomplice entered the Normandy home of Rosa Kahn, 81, representing themselves as policemen investigating a band of thieves, police said. A young girl called police after hearing cries from Mrs. Kahn, who was beaten. In the ensuing gunfire, Willoquet died, the policeman was wounded and Willoquet's accomplice escaped in a car. Willoquet was first arrested in 1968, when police said he was working by day as a hair stylist and burglarizing chateaux in the Loire Valley in his free time. He was sentenced to five years in prison, with three years suspended. He was arrested again in 1974 in Paris in connection with 11 armed attacks and a dozen racketeering charges. During his trial in 1975, he earned a reputation as public enemy No. 1 by escaping from the Palais de Justice with the aid of his wife, who entered the hearing room disguised in the black robe of a French lawyer. She took out a grenade and passed her husband a pistol. Willoquet took the judge and his assistant hostage and fled, wounding two gendarmes. He was captured a year later, months after his wife was apprehended. He was sentenced to serve two concurrent 20-year terms and was freed after 14 years. He wrote a book, ``Anything To Be Free,'' while serving time.
AP880608-0068 	X	Defense Secretary Frank Carlucci today accused North Korea of trying to disrupt the Olympic Games and said the United States would beef up its military forces to stop any threat. ``Let me assure you that we will do all we can to help ensure the security of the 1988 Summer Olympics Games,'' he said. Communist North Korea continues to threaten peace on the divided Korean peninsula by refusing to work with South Korea to defuse the tension, Carlucci said. ``It is most unfortunate that the north continues its trouble-making role and remains unwilling to make the simple concessions necessary to bring about a reduction in tensions on the peninsula,'' he said. Carlucci gave the assurance to South Korean defense officials at the start of the 20th annual U.S.-South Korea security conference to discuss mutual defense. South Korea Defense Minister Oh Ja-bok also stressed the North Korean threat to the south and said the Olympics was adding to the tension. ``With the danger of their scheme to disrupt the coming Olympics remaining undiminished, military tension between south and north on the peninsla continues, thus posing a grave threat to the stability of Northeast Asia,'' he said. U.S. and South Korean delegates agreed during the talks to build up their early warning systems to detect any possible North Korean military threat. Up to three U.S. Navy aircraft carriers will help provide security for the Games, officials said. North Korea is demanding to co-host the Olympics. The International Olympic Committee and South Korea have rejected the demand, saying the Games are awarded to a single city. The two Koreas, divided since 1945, are bitter opponents that have clashed repeatedly. The United States has about 42,000 U.S. troops based in the south under a mutual defense pact. After meeting with Oh, Carlucci had lunch with President Roh Tae-woo and was awarded the Order of National Security. His scheduled visits later in the day with frontline American and South Korean troops were canceled due to bad weather, officials said.
AP901205-0033 	X	Development of the Navy's $48.7 billion Seawolf attack submarine should be slowed until technical and financial problems are solved, says a House committee report released today. The vessel is ``perhaps the most conspicuous and potentially most costly example of a program struggling with the problems of adapting state-of-the-art computer technology into a multi-billion-dollar weapons platform,'' says the Government Operations Committee report. It recommends that Congress limit funding for construction of additional Seawolf submarines until the Pentagon clarifies the program's mission and provides assurances that the computer problems will be fixed. Spokesman Lt. Greg Smith said the Navy would have no immediate comment. Pentagon plans call for building 29 of the ships for $48.7 billion, with the first scheduled for completion in 1995 at an estimated cost of $1.9 billion. It is billed as the largest, quietest and most heavily armed nuclear attack submarines. ---
AP880226-0097 	X	Vice President George Bush, during a campaign stop here, said the United States should do ``whatever is necessary, including military force'' to protect American interests in Panama. Bush stopped short of calling for military intervention in Panama in the wake of the ouster of President Eric Arturo Delvalle, saying that the United States' past history of intervention in Latin American affairs is ``what's hurting us in some areas now.'' He told the South Carolina Press Association: ``We will do whatever is necessary to protect American interests in Panama. We've got treaty interests on the (Panama) canal. I don't want to rattle any sabers. ... ``But we would obviously as the United States, and I would, reserve the right to do whatever is necessary, including military force, to protect America's sacred interest in that region of the world.'' The vice president, given a strong South Carolina lead in a poll published today, was heading for Atlanta after a day of campaigning Thursday in South Carolina, whose Republican presidential primary is Saturday, March 5. A poll by The Charlotte Observer indicated Bush was the favorite in the state's GOP contest, with the support of 41 percent of those likely to vote in the primary. Sen. Bob Dole trailed with 29 percent; former television evangelist Pat Robertson had 13 percent; and Rep. Jack Kemp had 4 percent. Twelve percent were undecided. On Thursday, Bush seemed to be confidently raising the stakes as he declared, ``South Carolina is going to stand alone as the forerunner of who is going to be president, in my view.'' Bush traveled by motorcade through the state's northwestern corner, stopping at colleges, technical schools, a high school, popular restaurants and a sidewalk crowd in nearby Greenwood. At one of his first stops, Bush addressed head-on the issue of the region's major textile industry and the calls by its leaders for limits on foreign imports. Textile leaders contend the industry has been damaged by cheap imports and they want legislation imposing limits on foreign products brought into the United States. Bush referred to that as a ``pure, all-out'' protectionist policy that may cost three other jobs while saving one. He said existing trade laws are adequate if enforced. ``That's not the answer,'' Bush said. ``The answer is, we can compete if the playing field is level. I will enforce the laws. I will guarantee you that there is every effort made towards fair trade.'' A day earlier rival Bob Dole campaigned in the state and pledged to support the legislation in the Senate _ similar to legislation that President Reagan vetoed over textile-state objections two years ago. Bush argued that South Carolina's economy has been growing and pointed to figures he said show 62,000 new jobs were created in the state last year, including 2,700 in textiles. He contended currency differences with Japan are improving and that manufacturing and agricultural imports have climbed recently. ``We're seeing improvement out there,'' he said. Bush cited evidence of economic improvement at most every stop but didn't repeat his opposition to the textile import limits until asked. ``There have got to be some changes before I'd be for it,'' he said. Bush rode in his armored limo for most of the day but spent one leg of the trip on a bus with about 40 active supporters from the area. He said that Dole's endorsement by Sen. Strom Thurmond ``makes the stakes higher for Dole'' in South Carolina. Thurmond, however, didn't provide enough help to make a difference for his GOP primary favorite eight years ago _ Texan John Connally. Bush was accompanied by South Carolina Gov. Carroll A. Campbell Jr., his state chairman, and national campaign manager Lee Atwater, a native South Carolinian. Atwater attached much significance to the state's primary even while arguing Bush could withstand a loss here. He said that if Robertson fails to beat Bush in South Carolina he won't win a single state. And Atwater said if Dole finishes third in South Carolina, ``I think he's going to lose every single state on Super Tuesday'' when 20 states including all the rest of the South hold primaries. The Observer's poll, conducted by the newspaper's market research division, surveyed 687 registered voters who indicated they were likely to participate in the primary. The margin of error is 4 percentage points, the newspaper said.
AP881128-0262 	X	Stocks opened mixed today in slow trading, influenced by new uncertainty about the outlook for inflation, interest rates and the dollar. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials was up 4.62 points to 2,079.30 by 10 a.m. EST. Among broader indicators, the New York Stock Exchange composite index of all listed issues rose 0.34 to 150.97. The American Stock Exchange market-value index rose 0.66 to 291.85. Gaining and declining issues were nearly even on the NYSE, with 415 up, 414 down and 495 unchanged. Volume totaled 14.96 million shares after the first 30 minutes of trading. Wall Street strategists were divided about the market's direction. Many said prices were due to strengthen given the pessimism that has pervaded for awhile, making some stocks attractive. Others said too many economic uncertainties were making stocks risky. An Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries price-boosting accord could raise the inflation rate, the dollar has been facing heavy selling pressure and talk has increased about a possible Federal Reserve move to tighten interest rates. On Friday the Dow Jones industrial average fell 17.60 points to 2,074.68, finishing the week with a net gain of 12.27. Declining issues outnumbered advances by about 3 to 2 on the NYSE, with 513 up, 778 down and 521 unchanged. Big Board volume came to 72.09 million shares, down from 112.01 million Wednesday and the lightest total since a 48.86 million-share day on Dec. 26, 1986.
AP900927-0200 	X	If the chief executive officer of a major company ran his business affairs in the same manner as the federal government does, he would lose his job. There is almost no question this would be his fate because the board of directors, answerable to the shareholders, would be compelled to ask why, for example, he was unaware of the company's poor financial condition. And he wouldn't have a good answer. They would ask why he made decisions based on inaccurate information, why his flow of information was inadequate, why it took so long to assemble, why he failed to take action until months after the problems had become crises. The federal government has fought the problem but it hasn't succeeded, and elected and appointed officials still must make decisions on the basis of insufficient or unreliable information. In the second quarter, based on the best evidence available to the Commerce Department in late July, the economy expanded at an annual rate of 1.2 percent -weak, but still strong enough to convince officials to refrain from taking action. This week, three months after the second quarter ended, it became known to the President that the economy had been failing in that period, just skirting recession, growing at a bare four-tenths of a percent. The White House expressed surprise and concern, and Michael Boskin, the White House chief economic adviser, conceded the economy was now on a weaker path than had been known. The administration halved its earlier projections. While the Federal Reserve has its own data retrieval methods, by means of which it seeks to anticipate and fine-tune the economic direction, it too must have been surprised by the tardy news. You can't foresee with ancient data. The situation points up the problem of running an economy so huge that data cannot be assembled in time to act. Not only does its collection take time, but when assembled it is incredibly complex, making it subject to revision. It is such a revision that now reveals the April-June economy was tripping on a tightrope rather than steady on its feet as officials had believed, in spite of fears expressed by private economists and business people. The problem has existed since economic statistics were first gathered, but it becomes more serious when the economy is walking the line between recession and expansion, as it is now, or when efforts are made to fine tune. Fine tuning, defined more by the attempt than the accomplishment, seeks to deal with the economy over shorter periods of time than is usually the case - by the month or even week, for example, rather than the quarter or the year. In the Federal Reserve's area of authority it would mean keeping an especially close watch, among other things, on the money supply and interest rates, which of course rely on accurate measurements of economic activity. Generally speaking, economists both in and out of government have no choice but to use official statistics in analyzing business and economic conditions, but some private-sector economists have recently complained about inaccuracies. Some, in fact, have devised their own computer-aided techniques for gathering and analyzing information, hoping to make themselves less reliant on the official statistics. The latest revision, however, is an extremely critical one that presents a brand new perspective and forces changes in forecasts throughout government and industry, and it will add to the complaints.
AP880225-0092 	X	A former Argentine general accused of kidnapping and killing civilians in his country was told his refusal to answer lawyers' questions would harm him in a U.S. civil suit by a former prisoner. U.S. District Judge Samuel Conti told Carlos Suarez Mason on Wednesday that if he continued his silence, any fact he was asked about would be considered true for the purposes of the $20 million lawsuit. Suarez Mason, who is fighting extradition to Argentina, defied an order by a federal magistrate earlier this week and refused to answer questions about his alleged responsibility for atrocities in military prisons during the late 1970s. The proposed questions include whether Suarez Mason had authority to order torture and executions at prisons run by the First Army Corps, which he commanded from 1976 to 1979. The former general said Monday he would not answer questions without having a lawyer. The issue of whether the lawyer Suarez Mason has hired for the extradition case must also represent him in three civil suits without additional pay is now before the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. Conti told the lawyers to submit written questions and ordered Suarez Mason to be ready to answer on March 28, a day before the scheduled trial of the civil suit and a week after his scheduled extradition hearing before another judge. Suarez Mason, 63, is charged in Argentina with 43 murders and 24 kidnappings of civilians, allegedly committed by soldiers under his command during the so-called ``dirty war'' against suspected leftists. He fled Argentina after a civilian government came to power in 1983 and was arrested in January 1987 at his home in Foster City, south of San Francisco. He is being held without bail. Three civil suits have been filed against him by former Argentinians now living in the United States, who say they were tortured or their relatives were killed by soldiers under the general's command. U.S. courts have allowed damage suits for acts committed abroad in violation of international law by a foreigner who is physicially in the court's district.
AP880811-0137 	X	Iraq today accused Iran of shelling Iraqi military positions near the Shatt al-Arab waterway, where the Persian Gulf war broke out nearly eight years ago. The attacks, if confirmed, would be the first serious fighting reported since both nations agreed Monday at the United Nations to begin a cease-fire Aug. 20 and to open direct talks in Geneva five days later. The accusation came in a brief statement from the Iraqi Mission to the United Nations. It said the attacks occurred Wednesday and today. The statement said ``the Iranian armed forces bombarded Iraqi military positions'' around Basra and the Faw peninsula with howitzers, mortars and small missiles. The brief report to the United Nations did not denounce Iran. The statement also did not say whether Iraq suffered casualties. U.N. Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar, who had no immediate comment on the statement, scheduled a meeting with Iraqi Ambassador Ismat Kittani at the ambassador's request, presumably to discuss the situation. When Perez de Cuellar announced the cease-fire date, Iran gave him a letter pledging it would not launch any attacks prior Aug. 20. Iraq did not submit a similar letter, but the U.N. chief said Tuesday he had received oral assurances from both nations they would exercise restraint. The main attack on Basra involved 214 howitzer shells, 205 mortar rounds and 32 small missiles, the Iraqi statement said. The Faw bombardment involved 26 howitzer shells, 32 mortar rounds and 16 small missiles, it added. Both targets are near Shatt al-Arab, the disputed waterway that forms the southern border between Iran and Iraq. It is the only sea outlet Iraq has and it has been blocked by Iran since early in the war. Iraq invaded Iran in 1980 after border skirmishes in a bid to gain complete control of the waterway. Today's Iraqi statement also said without elaborating that an Iranian tank fired two missiles at Iraqi positions in the ``northern sector'' of the border. On Wednesday, Iran's U.N. ambassador, Mohammad Ja'afar Mahallati, complained to Parez de Cuellar that Iraqi warplanes had buzzed Iranian cities and warned that more such flights could jeopardize the proposed truce. In Tehran on Wednesday, Iran's acting commander-in-chief, Hashemi Rafsanjani, said a U.N. inquiry must condemn Iraq as the aggressor in the war or the region will face grave consequences. After meeting with the U.N. chief, Mahallati told reporters that Iraqi overflights ``can be a dangerous opening. If it (the overflights) would be continued, I am afraid that it is an obstacle in the way of the secretary-general carrying out his task.'' Perez de Cuellar said of the alleged overflights: ``I am persuaded that if something happened, it was kind of a mistake, a technical mistake, a misunderstanding.''
AP880511-0215 	X	Thousands of people who worked at the fire-ravaged First Interstate Bank tower have moved to temporary quarters in a generally trouble-free transition. Some of the new space even was provided by competing financial institutions. ``Our fiercest competitors have been very nice in this crisis,'' said Bob Campbell, a spokesman for First Interstate. The three-hour, 43-minute blaze a week ago gutted 4{ floors in the 62-story tower, the tallest building in California, and caused one death and 40 injuries. An 12th-floor electrical problem was the suspected cause. It will take six to 10 weeks to reopen floors of the vacated 1 million square-foot building that were damaged by smoke and water, officials said. Mal Lumby, a spokesman for First Interstate, said there are no firm estimates yet on how long it will take to repair the burned floors. ``It could be as long as a year. It's all speculation at this point. The analysis of the metal (structural beams) has not yet been done,'' Lumby said. Most of First Interstate's 2,000 bank and holding company employees have been working in their new locations since Friday. About 900 report daily to the bank's emergency operations center several blocks from the burned building. The center, described by Campbell as ``the operations hub of the bank'' is where employees handle check clearings, statements and securities operations. ``Customer service didn't miss a beat,'' said another bank spokesman, John Popovich. Several hundred other people moved to vacant space in nearby buildings; about 800 are on call at home enjoying a paid vacation. ``No one is being laid off,'' Campbell said, adding that First Interstate hoped to have space next week for all employees. Bank of America and Security Pacific National Bank helped out the competition in the emergency. Bank of America provided sub-leased office space at downtown for three of the 10 banks operating out of the First Interstate tower. Corporate officers of First Interstate and their clerical staffs moved into a 23,700 square-foot area of the 10th floor of the Bank of America headquarters, said Bank of America spokesman Tom Chapman. Hanil Bank of Korea moved its employes into 4,800 square feet of space, he said, and Commerzbank of Germany workers moved into a 3,800-square-foot area on the 47th floor of the Bank of America headquarters. Popovich credited the bank's emergency plan and satellite headquarters, a $1.5 million contingency facility, for keeping the bank in operation. ``Of course, we expected an earthquake, but it was nice to have it (the plan) handy,'' he said. First Interstate owns the bank tower in partnership with Equitable Life Assurance Society. Equitable's real estate subsidiary, Equitable Real Estate in New York, manages the building. There also were 30 other tenants, mostly legal firms employing about 1,400 people, with operations in the now-closed tower. Many attorneys have taken refuge in nearby legal offices. ``There has been great community generosity here and reaching out,'' Equitable's Jonathan Miller said Wednesday from New York. Suitcase- and box-toting employees, accompanied by security officers, have been making a daily pilgrimage to the fire-scarred tower to pick up crucial files, computer disks and other items such as telephone lists.
AP900301-0170 	X	Senate leaders and President Bush compromised Thursday on future air pollution controls for automobiles, factories and electric power plants, enhancing chances that a clean air bill will pass this year. The agreement, after more than three weeks of closed-door negotiations, was viewed as a middle ground likely to attract enough support to thwart continuing regional opposition in the looming Senate debate. Majority Leader George Mitchell, D-Maine, called the compromise a ``sound and comprehensive'' agreement that will substantially improve air quality over the next decade. He planned to bring the legislation to the Senate floor on Monday. ``President Bush is extraordinarily pleased with the agreement. It is a milestone, an enormous step forward,'' said Roger Porter, the president's chief domestic policy adviser. Porter said the administration would attempt to expedite Senate passage and seek a similar agreement in the House, where clean-air legislation remains in committee. But the compromise is still likely to encounter stiff industry lobbying, largely because of its estimated $20 billion to $40 billion annual cost to the economy. Both industrial and environmental groups issued statements Thursday denouncing the compromise. Some senators also have expressed concern that the bargaining weakened provisions in the original Senate bill that would have required stronger automobile emission controls to combat urban smog. Other have voiced continued concern about the impact of acid rain controls. ``The agreement fails to require the controls we need to provide clean air in the nation and in New Jersey,'' said Sen. Frank Lautenberg, D-N.J., who participated in some of the private discussions, but said he would not support the compromise on the Senate floor. Sen. Bob Dole, R-Kan., the minority leader, called the compromise ``a giant step forward'' in revising federal air pollution laws for the first time in 13 years. But he cautioned that many senators likely will seek changes when the measure goes to the Senate floor. He urged Mitchell ``not to handcuff anyone'' during the floor action by rushing to cut off debate. The agreement made some accommodations to regional interests, especially those concerned about the local economic cost of acid rain controls. On that score, the compromise continues to require a 10 million ton annual reduction of sulfur dioxide emissions, but allows Midwest utilities to achieve extra credits and allowances that could be sold to other utilities to recoup some of the costs. Plants that use new technology _ instead of switching away from high-sulfur coal to another fuel _ could delay compliance for two years would receive additional credits for early cuts in emissions, provisions designed to help West Virginia's coal industry. About a dozen senators from the Midwest had threatened to filibuster the legislation if some accommodation were not met to ease their concerns about the high costs of the pollution controls. Mitchell said he still could not discount the threat of a filibuster, but various Senate sources suggested that with the compromise, Mitchell likely would have enough votes to halt debate. Sen. Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., said he would seek additional changes to the bill. But ``I'm not going to engage in any filibuster,'' he said. ``We did not have a choice between the good, the bad and the ugly. We had a choice between ugly, uglier and ugliest,'' said Sen. Christopher Bond, R-Mo., who during the private talks sought to work out provisions to ease the plight of Midwest utilities that rely heavily on high-sulfur coal. The breakthrough on the legislation came Wednesday when leaders agreed on pollution curbs on automobiles. The compromise eliminates an automatic second round of auto tailpipe controls, although such measures could be put into effect if more than 11 of 27 cities with ``serious'' ozone pollution problems fail to meet federal air quality standards at the end of this decade. The White House had strongly opposed the second round of controls, as had the auto industry. But environmentalists, state pollution control officials in areas with the dirtiest air, and some senators argued the second round of controls are needed to deal with smog in such areas as southern California and the Northeast. In the final days of negotiations, an agreement also came on the acid rain provision, after senators from the West were assured that the utility emission controls would allow for future growth in electric capacity and some accommodation was made to the Midwest region. Earlier tentative agreements were struck on how to curb toxic and smog-causing emissions from industrial plants. Under the compromise, industrial plants will have to use the best available technology to curb releases of 192 toxic chemicals including carcinogens, or cancer-causing agents. Early in the next decade a ``health standard'' would require plants to reduce emissions further, if the cancer risk to nearby residents is still too high. A broad range of industries and businesses also would have to comply with tougher controls on smog-causing emissions. The compromise, however, would exempt thousands of smaller polluters, which would have been covered by the original Senate bill. Environmental groups, meanwhile, chastised the negotiations and said the compromise agreement severely weakened the original Senate bill. ``The back-room dealing has generated bad deals for the American people,'' complained Richard Ayres, chairman of the National Clean Air Coalition. But industry did not like the agreement either. The Edison Electric Institute called the agreement ``unnecessarily costly'' for the nation's utilities. The Chemical Manufacturers Association called the tougher controls on toxic chemicals too stringent and politically motivated and ignoring scientific facts about health risks. The agreement is ``far from what business and industry would consider acceptable,'' said William Fay, administrator of the Clean Air Working Group, industry's umbrella lobbying organization on clean air issues. ``There's no question the bill has been improved but there are still some real problems,'' said Helen Petrauskas, vice president for environmental engineering at Ford Motor Co. Though the bill avoids any requirement that automakers sell a specific number of cars that burn clean fuels, which favors industry, the exhaust standards are still tougher than the industry would like, she said.
AP880903-0133 	X	Iraq's foreign minister said Saturday that the 10-day-old Persian Gulf peace talks were stalled at their starting point, and he blamed Iran for the delay. Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz spoke to reporters at the U.N. building in Geneva after a nearly two-hour meeting with U.N. mediator Jan Eliasson. ``We are still at square one,'' Aziz said. ``We have not gone beyond that square because the other side, the Iranian side, has not yet shown any substantive sign that ... they realize their commitments vis-a-vis the cease-fire.'' He said those commitments had to do with freedom of navigation and with the Shatt-al-Arab waterway, Iraq's main outlet to the sea. Iran has insisted it has the right to stop vessels in the gulf and share control of the waterway. The dispute over the waterway is one of the key issues in the talks. Aziz also accused Iran of using ``their traditional art of procrastination'' in the talks. ``Maybe they were betting that procrastination would make people fed up and then give up. We don't.'' He said Iraqi delegates would stay at the talks as long as necessary. Iran made no immediate response to his comments. Iranian Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Velayati later held a nearly three-hour meeting with Eliasson that lasted until after midnight. As Velayati left, he told reporters the talks were constructive. Iran's foreign minister said ``we do hope that we can continue our talks during the next day or the day after tomorrow'' and added that ``we should see how things are going'' after the weekend. He declined further comment. Earlier Saturday, Eliasson told reporters he was working hard to find a format to advance the talks. However, an Iranian delegate speaking on condition of anonymity said the problem was substance, not form. The talks are aimed at agreeing on follow-up measures to the U.N.-sponsored cease-fire that took effect Aug. 20. The Iran-Iraq conflict, which began in September 1980, has claimed about 1 million lives. Eliasson said, ``We are working hard and we hope that we will be advancing.'' But he reported little movement. He spoke shortly before meeting with Aziz and other members of the Iraqi delegation. Eliasson, named special representative Thursday by U.N. Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar, met separately with both ministers Friday. Perez de Cuellar left Geneva on Thursday, after mediating the first week of the talks. Perez de Cuellar said before he left Geneva that the main problem in the talks was that the two sides did not trust each other. On Friday, the Iranian mission in Geneva released a list of 47 alleged Iraqi violations of the cease-fire. On Saturday, the Iraqi mission distributed a copy of an Iraqi News Agency report that also accused Iran of committing 47 cease-fire violations. Iran has called for the immediate withdrawal of troops behind their respective borders. It also calls for quick implementation of the provisions of the U.N. Security Council's cease-fire resolution, particularly establishment of an independent inquiry to establish which side started the war.
AP901108-0056 	X	Entomologists say they want endangered species protection for a recently rediscovered butterfly that experts believed had been extinct for more than 50 years. Paul Hammond, an Oregon State University entomologist and butterfly expert, said he rediscovered the butterflies by accident. ``In the spring of 1989 I hiked out onto a south-facing slope of a hill that had native prairie on it, and here was this very unusual kind of lupine plant with all these little blue butterflies swimming around on it. ``I knew immediately what it was,'' he said. It was Fender's blue butterfly, a relic of the ice ages found only in Oregon's Willamette Valley. The butterfly was last seen near the small town of Wren, west of Corvallis, in 1937. Since that find last year, several pockets of the species have been found in western Oregon. A petition is being prepared to ask the U.S. Fish and Wildlife to declare the butterfly a threatened species under the federal Endangered Species Act. Hammond said the butterfly has a wingspan of only about 1 inch. The male is a ``brilliant, iridescent blue,'' he said. ``They really stand out. The female is a drab brown.'' The butterfly dates back more than 10,000 years, Hammond said. Surrounded by glaciers to the north and mountains to the south, east and west, the butterfly's habitat was limited to a small area of the Willamette Valley.
AP880829-0191 	X	Changes in adoption laws designed to curb illegal ``baby trade'' have restricted the ability of foreigners to adopt Filipino youngsters and may mean that many will spend their childhood in orphanages. New regulations, which took effect Aug. 3, ban adoptions of Filipino children by foreigners residing in the country unless at least one prospective parent is related to the child. Foreigners living abroad can still adopt Filipino children through international agencies. But prospective parents living here will have to return to their own country and file papers there through an international agency. The procedure can take years, depending on the adoption laws in the country where the papers are filed. Government figures indicate that in recent years about 17 percent of the 2,500 children adopted here annually have been taken by foreigners residing in the Philippines and who were not related to the child. More than a third of all adoptions of Filipino children are by foreigners, including those who file papers abroad and would not be affected by the changes. ``The new code is not anti-foreigner,'' said Lourdes Balanon, assistant director of the government's Bureau of Child and Youth Welfare. ``It is an effort by the government to protect our children.'' Ms. Balanon said that in the past foreigners could adopt Filipino children in a few weeks. Previous regulations allowed single foreigners to adopt with much less red tape than in the United States or other countries. Ms. Balanon added that although many of the adoptive foreign parents were of good character, others may have been fronts for ``baby trading'' _ selling youngsters to couples abroad who were unable to have children. ``Mothers were convinced to give up their children, and even kidnapping may have been encouraged,'' she said. Because local adoptions usually were arranged without the services of an international agency, the government here had no way of ensuring the child's welfare once the parents left the country. But some welfare workers fear the new regulations will discourage legitimate adoptions by qualified foreign families, living in a country without a tradition of taking in children who are not related to those who adopt them. In Filipino society, adoption of children with no blood ties is rare. Government figures show that in the past two years, only 5 percent of the children adopted here were taken by Filipino couples who were not related by blood. Traditionally, orphans and children of impoverished parents unable to care for them become the responsibility of the ``extended family'' _ uncles, aunts, cousins and grandparents. But children born out of wedlock are often kept secret from their families. Abortion is technically illegal and birth control is frequently shunned in this predominantly Roman Catholic country. Unwed mothers find themselves under tremendous social pressure to turn their infants over to religious or government orphanages. In other cases, extended families sometimes are too poor to take in another child. ``Older children will be especially affected,'' said Lisa Hechenova of the Asilio de San Vincente de Paul Orphange in Manila. ``Because if Filipinos adopt at all, they want infants. Foreigners are more inclined to accept toddlers and even 6-to-10-year olds.'' Jose, a 3-year-old toddler at Manila's Hospicio de San Jose Orphanage, is one of those children who, because of new regulations, may never have a home. He has been at the orphanage for more than eight months because officials have had difficulty finding him a home and the new changes in the law will make it even more difficult. Seven-year-old Maria was among the last children adopted by a resident foreign couple. She was given in July to a European couple. Maria said she never knew her natural parents. ``But I used to dream about them every night. Only they didn't have faces.''
AP881104-0214 	X	A former church secretary has pleaded guilty to murder charges in the 1983 slaying of her husband and admitted that she gave her former minister the handgun used to kill him. The alleged love triangle formed the basis of a television miniseries. Lorna Anderson Eldridge, 35, entered the plea to second-degree murder Thursday, telling the court that she and Thomas Bird plotted the 1983 slaying of Martin K. Anderson. Mrs. Eldridge said she and Bird hatched a plot in which she stopped her van on a rural highway and pretended to lose her keys so that her husband had to get out and look for them. The Lutheran pastor then shot her husband, she said. The slaying and Mrs. Eldridge's reputed love affair with Bird were dramatized in the CBS miniseries ``Murder Ordained'' in 1987. Mrs. Eldridge and Bird, 38, already are serving prison terms. She pleaded guilty in 1985 to criminal solicitation in an earlier, unsuccessful plot on her husband's life and was sentenced to five to 18 years. Bird, who has not been charged in Anderson's death, was convicted in 1984 of criminal solicitation in the unsuccessful plot. He was sentenced to two-and-a-half to seven years in that case, and to life in prison for murdering his wife, Sandra, in 1983. Sheriff Bill Deppish said Mrs. Eldridge's statement was an ``important breakthrough'' that could lead to new charges against Bird. Mrs. Eldridge, who remarried, originally was charged with first-degree murder but accepted a plea bargain under which the prosecution will seek a 10-year prison term at sentencing Jan. 3. Second-degree murder carries a maximum penalty of 20 years to life in prison. Jack Focht, Mrs. Eldridge's attorney, called the case ``kind of the great American tragedy _ that people romantically come apart sometimes and get involved romantically and violence sometimes happens. ``And when it happens as it did on Nov. 4, 1983, lives get stamped indelibly, lots of lives,'' he said.
AP900702-0197 	X	EDITOR'S NOTE _ For decades she labored in obscurity, writing the poems that no one would publish. Now at an age when most people are considering retiring, Amy Clampitt has begun to attract attention in the literary world.
AP900427-0198 	X	The spot month contract for West Texas Intermediate crude was $18.46 per barrel at 12 p.m. Friday on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
AP901203-0048 	X	Today's 17th game of the Garry Kasparov-Anatoly Karpov world chess championship has been postponed until Wednesday at Kasparov's request. The two Soviet grandmasters are scheduled to resume the 16th game on Tuesday. That game was contested for five hours Saturday and nearly six hours Sunday without a result after 88 moves. Through the 15 completed games, the players are tied with 7.5 points each. They have had three draws in the French portion of the championship. They had 10 draws in the 12 games played at New York between Oct. 8 and Nov. 7. The first player to reach 12.5 points wins the championship, but Kasparov would retain the title in the event of a 12-12 draw. Each player is allowed to request up to three postponements during the championship. The postponement requested by Kasparov today was his second. Karpov has used one timeout.
AP880316-0325 	X	General Electric Co. said its scientists have put a superconducting film on a silicon chip and gotten it to work at temperatures warmer than liquid nitrogen, the first such achievement. The matching of a superconductor and silicon is considered important because of silicon's dominance in the microelectronics field, GE said in an announcement for release Thursday. ``Virtually all of the world's microchips are made from silicon, so if you want to use the new superconducting materials in any way in microelectronics, it is advantageous to be able to deposit them on this substrate,'' Antonio Mogro-Campero, who did the research along with Larry G. Turner, said in a statement. Previous attempts to apply a superconducting film on silicon had failed because the layers mixed in the process of heating the film, known as annealing. Researchers at GE's research center in Schenectady, N.Y., solved the problem by using a buffer layer of zirconia, a heat-resistant metallic oxide. GE said the thin film remained superconducting _ that is, with zero loss of energy to resistance _ at temperatures as high as 310 degrees below zero Fahrenheit, 10 degrees above the point at which nitrogen becomes liquid.
AP881208-0133 	X	Liberal Roman Catholic Archbishop Raymond Hunthausen said Vatican officials have indicated he will regain full control of the Seattle archdiocese. Hunthausen, who returned Tuesday from a week in Rome, said he was ``hoping for some kind of a statement'' within weeks that will officially end the Vatican's direct assistance to the archdiocese. But a conservative Catholic group charged Wednesday that violations of church practices are continuing and said it will not let up in its criticism. ``I haven't seen a great change here,'' Margaret Hoffman, director of the Sons of St. Peter Coalition, said Wednesday. ``I've seen things happen currently that are not in line with church teaching. I think we as laymen have a duty to report abuses ... for the health of the church.'' Hunthausen's weeklong visit to Rome was to fulfill the requirement that bishops consult with the pope every five years. The archbishop ran afoul of the Vatican in 1983 over the granting of annulments and general absolution of sins, intercommunion with Protestants and opening of churches to meetings of homosexual Catholics. A Vatican investigation resulted in the archbishop being stripped of much of his power. Although Hunthausen's full powers were restored in May 1987 on the recommendation of an apostolic commission appointed by Rome, the panel continued to assist in the operation of the Seattle archdiocese. Most recently, Hunthausen has shared authority with Coadjutor Archbishop Thomas J. Murphy, who accompanied Hunthausen to Rome to present Pope John Paul II and Vatican officials an overview of changes made and planned in the ministry. Hunthausen said there would be no visible changes in the way he handles the archdiocese's operations, now that some changes and clarifications have been made or at least initiated. An archdiocesan statement said Vatican officials also were told Hunthausen's critics appear ``bent on undoing the fabric of unity that exists among sincere and conscientious believers within the Body of Christ. ... In our judgment, their criticism ought not to be given serious attention.'' Hunthausen said Wednesday the ``small cadre'' of critics within the archdiocese are ``people with a different view of the church.'' ``We'd love to be able to find a way to minister to them,'' he said.
AP880825-0014 	X	The long arm of the Environmental Protection Agency is reaching out to the local town dump _ and the huge metropolitan landfill as well. EPA, in its first major effort to regulate the land disposal of household trash and garbage, is proposing rules that officials say would force nearly every municipal dump to take steps to protect the environment. Announced Wednesday, the plan would require all of the nation's municipal solid waste landfills to install often-expensive monitoring equipment to detect pollution of groundwater supplies. The proposal, not expected to be popular with local governments, would require the cleaning up of dumps found to be leaking contaminants into underground aquifers. The draft regulations would force operators to put waterproof covers over dumps when they are closed and would set restrictions on where a new dump can be located. Many dumps that open after the rules take effect, probably not before 1991, would have to install bottom liners to prevent leakage and have systems to collect the polluting liquids found in dumps. ``It's a very strong protective rule,'' said J. Winston Porter, assistant EPA administrator for solid waste and emergency response. ``In some cases, people are going to have to spend a lot of (compliance) money.'' The plan would leave many compliance details up to states, so long as a dump did not impose any greater danger to humans than a 1-in-10,000 chance of contracting cancer from water contaminated by a dump's leachate. Porter told a news conference that states would have flexibility to operate their own compliance programs with an underlying proviso: ``We don't care what you do, but you cannot leak.'' The proposal would apply to an estimated 6,000 solid waste landfills _ 78 percent of them owned by local governments _ that handle about 80 percent of the 160 million tons of household refuse produced each year, he said. At least one of every four municipal dumps is believed to be violating one or more state groundwater-protection standards, he said. Porter said the dangers posed by municipal dumps can be seen in the ``Superfund'' priority cleanup list, where nearly one of every five facilities awaiting decontamination was once a municipal solid waste landfill. Around the nation, less than a third of the operating dumps have groundwater monitoring systems, only 15 percent have bottom liners and only 5 percent have leachate collection systems, according to EPA. ``Almost all landfills will have to do something,'' Porter said. ``There are very few landfills that meet all these requirements.'' He said he could not estimate precisely how much cost would be added to the nation's annual $4 billion to $5 billion bill for dumping, burning and recycling its trash and garbage. One EPA control scenario estimated the extra cost could reach $800 million a year, or about $11 per household. ``It will add something to the homeowner's bill,'' Porter said. ``We don't think it will be dramatic.'' He said he expects positive reaction from states because they will have flexibility to structure their dump-control programs to meet particular hydrogeologic and topographical conditions. ``I think we'll get two other reactions: local governments will say this is too expensive and environmental groups will say it isn't strong enough,'' Porter said. He said the higher dump operating costs under the proposed rules could nudge local governments to make greater efforts to recycle trash, a move that could aid EPA's national goal of recycling 25 percent of all household refuse. EPA expects to take a year to obtain public comment on the proposal before making it final, Porter said. Dumps would then have 18 more months before they had to comply with the requirements. He said some dumps might close to evade the proposed rules, a move he acknowledged would leave them without leakproof covers unless they are in one of the handful of states that now require them.
AP900708-0023 	X	An assailant ambushed and stabbed an Israeli policeman in the back Sunday near a church in the walled Old City marking the legendary burial place of Jesus, police said. The officer, identified as Moshe Tadji, 24, was in moderate condition at Jerusalem's Hadassah Hospital with a punctured lung after undergoing surgery to remove the knife, a hospital spokeswoman said. Police shut the city's stone-walled gates after the 11:00 a.m. attack for an hour and detained dozens of Palestinians in the area for questioning. The assault came on a day designated by Palestinian underground leaders in a leaflet for ``distinguished escalation'' as part of the 31-month-old uprising against Israel. Police Minister Roni Milo of the right-wing Likud bloc rushed to the scene from the weekly Cabinet session and vowed police would use tougher measures to prevent further attacks. ``We see this attack in a very grave light,'' Milo said on Israel radio. ``There are new methods of action that will be carried out as soon as possible,'' he added, without elaborating. Police and witnesses said Tadji, who routinely works in Jerusalem's square-mile old city, was ambushed by a youth with black curly hair and wearing blue jeans and a yellow shirt, outside the Holy Sepulcher church in the Christian Quarter. The church is held by Catholics to be the burial site of Jesus. Protestants believe the burial place is outside the walled city in a shrine called the ``Garden Tomb.'' Doctors later said they removed an 8-inch-long kitchen knife from Tadji's back and that he was in moderate condition, Hadassah spokeswoman Yael Bossem said. The area of the Holy Sepulcher has been a source of Arab-Jewish tensions following the settlement established by a group of armed Israelis in a nearby building in April. The Supreme Court later ordered most settlers evicted after strong protests from the United States, but allowed about 20 to remain pending resolution of a tenancy dispute in the building. Israel captured East Jerusalem, with the West Bank and Gaza Strip, in the 1967 Middle East war. Jerusalem was annexed shortly afterward. The city is home to more than 350,000 Jews and about 140,000 Palestinians. During the uprising, 723 Palestinians have been killed by Israelis and 45 Israelis have been slain by Arabs. Another 232 Palestinians have been killed by fellow Arabs as alleged collaborators with Israel. Also Sunday, Israel reopened a Palestinian vocational college in Abu Dis in the West Bank as part of a plan to reopen colleges shut during the uprising to prevent unrest.
AP900514-0148 	X	The University of South Carolina's president has spent hundreds of thousands of dollars on gifts for donors, office artwork and teaching salaries for celebrities such as Robby Benson and Jihan Sadat. Now James B. Holderman's lavish spending, which has given him trouble for years, has once again raised the ire of state lawmakers, who have warned him to spend public funds more wisely if he wants to keep his job. ``People are tired of it,'' Rep. Herb Kirsh said Monday. ``I feel things will be different from here on out. The public is demanding it. South Carolinians don't like that kind of spending.'' Legislators earlier this month blasted Holderman after local newspapers revealed he spent $533,898 in the past year on items such as $800-a-night hotel rooms for himself, $6,400 on sculptures for his office and $163,000 for meals and receptions for potential donors. Many of the expenses were charged to Holderman's $500,000 discretionary account _ which is funded with receipts from vending machines and concessions _ and his state-issued American Express card. By comparison, Clemson University President Max Lennon has a discretionary account of $18,000. Holderman has defended his spending as a vital part of fund-raising for the state-supported university of 40,000 students, saying his efforts have helped raise $25 million for USC in the last year. But he promised to keep his expenses down following public criticism. He said the fallout from the latest revelations has ``taught me the difficulty of taking a macro view of things.'' ``Some people tend to take a micro view of things, and that's where there seems to be a misunderstanding,'' he said last week. But if Holderman wants to remain at the helm of the state's flagship university, state lawmakers and his own board of trustees have insisted that he curb his spending. Kirsh said Holderman has set a bad example for students. If he does not follow spending guidelines being set by the newly elected board of trustees, the legislator said he would favor Holderman's dismissal. ``He's only doing it now because of the public outcry,'' Kirsh said. Board of trustees chairman Michael Mungo has also made it clear that Holderman must control his spending according to the guidelines or face dismissal. Holderman, who has presided over the university since 1977, first drew criticism in 1986 when it was revealed he ran up generous hotel bills during fund-raising trips and bought expensive gifts for donors. He then came under fire for spending huge amounts of money to recruit celebrities such as Benson, an actor and director who has taught filmmaking as an artist-in-residence since 1988. The school has paid Benson $158,367 in salary and expenses and $15,600 for rent, while Holderman has kicked in $10,000 from his discretionary account for moving and travel expenses. In addition, the university still holds about $23,000 in unpaid bills from the production of Benson's latest movie, ``Modern Love,'' which was filmed in South Carolina. Benson has said the bills will be paid and the school will receive 2 percent of the movie's profits. Benson's two-year contract expires Tuesday and no new contract offer has been made, school spokeswoman Debra Allen said Monday. Benson did not return calls left at his office Monday seeking comment, but he has said he would leave if his work was not appreciated. Other prominent personalities hired by Holderman for fat contracts include Jihan Sadat, widow of the late Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, who was paid $200,000 to teach a course in Egyptian culture for three semesters in 1985 and 1986. In contrast, ``Deliverance'' author James Dickey was hired in 1969, before Holderman came aboard, and receives an $80,000 annual salary to teach four writing courses. He pays his secretary's salary and his expenses out of his own pocket. The university under Holderman's leadership also has been criticized by lawmakers for sloppy bookkeeping and using public funds, employees and equipment to operate the school's 10 private fund-raising foundations.
AP901016-0102 	X	Highflying former savings and loan owner Donald Ray Dixon goes on trial Wednesday on charges he used depositors' money to finance lavish acquisitions, leaving taxpayers with a $1.3 billion federal bailout. Dixon, 50, traveled the world for gourmet parties and acquired such trinkets as a 17th Century castle door, Baccarat crystal, Remington sculptures, a silver-studded saddle and a posh house in Solana Beach, Calif., just north of San Diego. The government says those luxuries, as well as payments to prostitutes and political campaigns, were financed from the vaults at Vernon Savings & Loan Association, which collapsed under the weight of Dixon's excess in 1987 and was taken over by the government. A dozen other Vernon executives and associates have preceded Dixon in court; 10 have been convicted and a guilty verdict against two others was set aside because the jury discussed Dixon's indictment. ``Perhaps when my day in court comes, if they'll listen, they'll find out what really happened and the blame can be properly assessed and properly assigned,'' Dixon said in July when he was arraigned on a 38-count indictment. The indictment charged him with conspiracy, misapplication of funds, making false statements and other crimes. Jury selection was to begin Wednesday in federal court. Testimony is expected to begin Monday, and continue three to four weeks. If convicted on all counts, Dixon could be sentenced to up to 190 years in prison and fined as much as $9.5 million. An extra-large panel of 75 to 80 potential jurors was called because of publicity in the case, said Jean Hiller, court coordinator for U.S. District Judge Joe A. Fish. Assistant U.S. Attorney David Jarvis of Dallas said 40 to 50 prosecution witnesses could testify. Included on that list is a convicted madam, who has confirmed that she supplied prostitutes for Vernon executives when they were in San Diego. Defense and prosecution attorneys declined to discuss the case this week, citing a instructions from Fish. Until the recent notoriety given Neal Bush and Silverado Savings and Loan in Colorado or Charles Keating and Lincoln Savings and Loan in California, Dixon and Vernon were at or near the top of the list of abuses cited in the industry. Dixon's trial is an effort ``to bring to justice people who break the law, who use savings and loan associations as personal piggy banks, and who may have thought they could just walk away free and let the American taxpayer shoulder the cost of their greed,'' said Timothy Ryan, Office of Thrift Supervision director in Washington. Vernon had a luxury yacht and a fleet of five planes worth $6 million. The S&L also paid the $22,000 tab for Dixon's gastronomic tour of European restaurants, the government said. Dixon also is charged with illegal contributions to such politicians as former House Speaker Jim Wright and Jack Kemp, a former Republican congressman from New York who is now Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Recipients of those funds did not know they came from illegal sources, prosecutors have said. When regulators closed Vernon, it was the largest thrift bailout in history, and it remains among the most expensive. Most of the expensive acquisitions have been sold at auction since the government takeover. When regulators closed Vernon, they renamed it Monfort Savings Association. In December 1988, Monfort was one of five insolvent thrifts combined to create First Gibraltar Bank, the largest savings and loan in Texas. Vernon also has resulted in the stiffest sentence to date for an S&L officer. Former Chairman Woody F. Lemons was sentenced to 30 years in prison earlier this year.
AP901203-0016 	X	Cities are getting more ethnically diverse and their inhabitants are aging, demands that cit governments must answer, urban leaders said Sunday. ``We're seeing a demographic wave that will transform entire regions,'' said former San Antonio Mayor Henry Cisneros at the 67th annual convention of the National League of Cities. He moderated a panel of mayors, city council members, county commissioners and borough presidents, who addressed the impact of these changes on electoral politics and the populace. More white women and members of minorities are winning election to top spots in cities and counties. At the same time, the white urban population is growing older while minority populations are the youngest and fastest growing in the nation, Cisneros said. In 10 years, 92 percent of Californians will live in a city with a population consisting of at least 30 percent Asian, Hispanic or black residents, he said. Similarly, only 15 percent of those entering the job market in 2000 will be white males; 85 percent will be women and minorities. ``These figures present dramatic implications about what we do for the planning of the future cities,'' Cisneros said. Panel members predicted difficulty in paying for bond issues for things as school improvements because the tax base in cities comprises older people on fixed incomes and the urban poor. Ruth Messinger, president of the New York City borough of Manhattan, said cities will need to address the need for day care and more education for families, including bilingual instruction, to keep residents working and paying taxes. St. Petersburg, Fla., Mayor Robert Ulrich offered a different perspective. He said the aging population should be regarded as an asset able to provide untapped resources in the form of public service. One example was offered by Mayor Maynard Jackson of Atlanta, where the city supports a program that brings together retired people with single-parent families to provide day care and employment at the same time. Michael Woo, a Los Angeles city councilman, suggested better programming for English instruction. ``I would like to see a common language,'' said Woo. ``I believe in ESL (English as a Second Language), but it would help if we did a better job. If high schools were able to produce not only English-proficient minority students, but also the blond and blue-eyed variety.'' Cleveland Mayor Michael White said cities must offer fairness to their constituents and enfranchisement to minorities. ``As long as this country commits $500 billion to bankrupt savings and loans; as long as this country spends $4 billion to $6 billion on Iraq and Kuwait; as long as this country continues to lock in black kids, brown kids and poor white kids into an economic system to which there is no end to the tunnel, then it will continue to get worse,'' White said.
AP880322-0211 	X	Federal fuel-economy standards will cause thousands of traffic deaths next year by discouraging the use of safer, larger cars, two researchers said Tuesday as the government reported a slight increase in auto fuel efficiency last year. ``Fuel economy regulation inevitably leads to smaller, lighter cars that are inherently less safe than the cars that would be produced without a binding fuel-economy constraint,'' said a study by Robert W. Crandall of the Brookings Institution in Washington and John D. Graham of the Harvard School of Public Health in Boston. They estimated the standards would cause 2,200 to 3,900 traffic deaths next year. Also Tuesday, the Transportation Department told Congress that passenger cars sold in the United States got 28.2 miles per gallon last year overall, up 0.2 miles per gallon from the previous year. Transportation Secretary Jim Burnley said Americans tended to buy slightly heavier, higher performance cars last year than in prior years, and imports showed a shift way from subcompacts to compacts, increasing their market share by 8 percentage points. Among the Big Three automakers, Chrysler Corp. had the most fuel efficient cars fleetwide in 1987, at 27.6 mpg, down from 27.8 mpg in 1986. Ford Motor Co. had a fuel-economy of 26.8 mpg, unchanged from the previous year, and General Motors Corp.'s was 26.4 mpg, up from 26.2 mpg the previous year. Weighted by sales, imports had an fuel economy of 31 mpg, down from 31.7 mpg the previous year. Domestic cars averaged 26.7 mpg, up from 26.6 mpg the year before. Burnley used the report to reiterate his support for elimination of the fuel-economy requirement, saying it placed U.S. manufacturers at a disadvantage against their foreign competition. ``The greatest contribution we can make to keeping jobs in the United States and to making the domestic auto industry competitive on a worldwide basis is to repeal the (fuel economy) rules,'' Burnley said. ``Thousands of American jobs are threatened because of an anachronistic law that is doing substantial harm to our economy and our trade balance.'' The Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards _ CAFE for short _ from 1978 sought to encourage more fuel efficient cars and thereby reduce petroleum use at a time of shortages and soaring prices. The required fuel economy this year is 26 mpg of gasoline. Manufacturers that fail to meet the standards are liable to fines. Using mathematical models, Crandall and Graham estimated the CAFE standards had reduced the weight of cars by 500 pounds, to 3,100 pounds, despite sharp declines in oil prices after 1981 that in an unregulated market would be expected to encourage manufacture of larger cars. That decline in weight ``caused by CAFE is associated with a 14 to 27 percent increase in occupant fatality risk,'' the study said. They applied that range to existing traffic fatality figures to make their estimate of the number of additional deaths likely in 1989. The estimate took into account such factors as the tendency of occupants of smaller cars, compared with those of larger cars, to buckle their safety belts, the study said. The study also said the CAFE standards, by raising the cost of desirable high-performance cars, have encouraged people to drive their cars longer, extending ``the useful life of older, less safe and higher-pollution cars.'' Rep. Bob Carr, D-Mich., said at a news conference marking the study's release he hopes the conclusions will help win support for legislation he introduced last year to abolish the CAFE standards. ``Congress is not the place to design auto models,'' Carr said, acknowledging the bill's chances of passage this year are slim. The study by Crandall and Graham is scheduled for publication next year in The Journal of Law and Economics. The study was released by the Competitive Enterprise Institute, a public-issues group espousng free-market principles. Crandall and Graham said they did the study without funds from the institute.
AP901016-0070 	X	JACKSONVILLE, Fla. (AP - A fire destroyed a two-story frame house near downtown, killing six people, and six counts of murder were filed today against the husband of one of the victims. The fire was reported late Monday by a police officer who spotted the blaze while on routine patrol, Police Lt. Lorin Mock said. By the time firefighters arrived, the house was fully involved in flames, he said. The man arrested, whose name was being withheld by police, also was charged with setting the fire that killed his wife, another woman, and four children, three girls and a boy, said police spokesman Asa Higgs, who offered no other details. He also was charged with violating an injunction ordering him to stay away from his wife, Higgs said. Investigators did not say how the blaze was started. A man sleeping in a car outside the house was able to save a 3-year-old boy, Mock said.
AP880721-0048 	X	Illinois Republican Gov. James Thompson came to this convention city to taunt the Democrats, but wound up hinting that he'd make a good running mate for GOP candidate George Bush. As the Democrats embraced the ticket of Michael Dukakis and Lloyd Bentsen, who differ on a number of issues, Thompson stressed his compatibility with the vice president. ``George Bush and I agree on a lot of things,'' said Thompson, a four-term governor who was an early Bush supporter. ``I'm too moderate for some people, but I've never been told I'm too moderate for George Bush,'' he said. Thompson was careful to avoid sounding overly eager as a job applicant. Vice presidential hopefuls traditionally refrain from tooting their own horns. ``There are a number of qualified candidates,'' Thompson said. ``There's no lack of talent in our party.'' Thompson's support gave Bush a boost in the Illinois primary, where he thrashed his GOP rivals after an impressive showing in the South. Since then, Thompson has been mentioned as a vice presidential prospect, and ``Thompson-Bush'' bumper stickers have appeared in Springfield, the Illinois capital. Thompson was in Atlanta on Wednesday to carry the GOP banner. He clearly relished the task, signaling what's certain to be a Republican effort to focus attention on Jesse Jackson as part of the Democratic team. ``Gov. Dukakis has accepted Jesse Jackson as his partner in this campaign, elevated him to a position equal to or perhaps higher than his nominal running mate, Lloyd Bentsen,'' Thompson told reporters. Thompson said it was a clever strategy by Dukakis to offer Bentsen as ``the soothing, reassuring conservative.'' But he said, ``my guess is those two partners of the troika, Dukakis and Jackson, will soon leave Bentsen in the dust.'' Thompson added: ``With Bentsen whispering in one ear and Jackson whispering in his other ear, who is Dukakis going to listen to? ... I think that's the question the American people need to have answered.''
AP880313-0070 	X	Sen. Paul Simon's home-state support appears to be slipping as the Illinois primary nears and he finds himself locked in a tight race with Jesse Jackson, according to the results of a newspaper poll to be published Monday. A Chicago Tribune poll of 500 Democrats likely to vote in Tuesday's primary shows Jackson with 32 percent of the support and Simon with 29 percent. But the poll, by Peter D. Hart and Associates has an error margin of plus or minus 5 percentage points, making the race a statistical dead heat. The latest poll, taken Friday and Saturday, updates one done earlier last week and published in Sunday's Tribune. That poll, with a similar sample and error margin, showed Simon holding 35 percent of the support to Jackson's 30 percent. ``I'm not saying every poll is inaccurate,'' Simon said while campaigning Sunday in Chicago's Chinatown. ``All I'm saying is if I get my message across to the people of Illinois, they're going to vote for me.'' Among other Democrats in the new poll, Massachusetts Gov. Michael Dukakis was third with 20 percent, Rep. Richard Gephardt of Missouri had 5 percent and Tennessee Sen. Albert Gore had 4 percent. The Tribune said 9 percent of the voters were undecided and 1 percent preferred none of the candidates. The newspaper did not update its Sunday poll of GOP voters, which found Vice Presient George Bush the overwhelming favorite among Illinois Repbulicans over rivals Kansas Sen. Bob Dole and former TV evangelist Pat Robertson. The new Tribune poll found Jackson's support strongest in Chicago, which represents nearly half of the state's likely Democratic primary voters. Simon did best in counties closer to his Southern Illinois home of Makanda and in the rest of Cook County outside Chicago. Support for the two was split among racial and sexual lines. Jackson was strongest among blacks and men, while Simon's support was heaviest among whites and women, the poll results show. Among occupations, blue-collar workers supported Jackson far more than other job classifications, while Simon's support was nearly even among all occupations.
AP880423-0154 	X	President Reagan will appoint Los Angeles federal judge Pamela Ann Rymer to the U.S. 9th Circuit Court of Appeals seat vacated by Anthony M. Kennedy, it was disclosed. Sen. Pete Wilson, R-Calif., said Friday that Reagan had picked Rymer, now a U.S. District Court judge in Los Angeles, to fill the seat left in November when Kennedy was named to the U.S. Supreme Court. Wilson will nominate U.S. Attorney Robert C. Bonner of Los Angeles to replace Rymer, said Wilson aide Bill Livingstone. The formal announcement of Rymer's nomination to the appellate court is expected from the White House next week, Livingstone said. Both appointments must be confirmed by the Senate. Rymer, 46, known for her stiff sentences, is a lifelong Republican and she was on a list of candidates for the U.S. Supreme Court before Reagan settled on Kennedy last year.
AP900119-0276 	X	After a four-year wait, South Korea has authorized E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Co.'s application to build a $97 million titanium dioxide plant jointly with a local firm, the Finance Ministry said Friday. Officials said the proposed plant will be capable of producing anually 60,000 tons of titanium dioxide, a white crystaline compound used as a paint pigment. The American company will put up $77.6 million and control 80 percent of the venture, with the remaining 20 percent invested by Hanyang Chemical Corp., officials said. Strong opposition by local environmentalists who feared pollution had delayed the approval. Sources said the U.S. government recently intervened to get the project approved. The Ministry officials said the approval was conditioned on du Pont burying waste from production. Du Pont is expected to market the product at home and abroad. There is now one small domestic producer. Officials said the final approval came Thursday when the Foreign Capital Project Review Committee met. Hanyang and Du Pont have yet to pick a site for the plant, according to Hanyang officials who did not say when the plant will begin operation. One press report said it will take about three years to build the plant.
AP900406-0147 	X	Sen. Edward M. Kennedy attacked the Bush administration Thursday for giving mere ``lip service to the fight to end bigotry'' while the White House renewed both support for civil rights and its threat to veto a bill the Massachusetts Democrat is sponsoring. ``The administration's veto threat underscores the sharp contrast between its words and its deeds on civil rights,'' said Kennedy, whose bill to combat job bias is a major goal of civil rights forces in Congress this year. Kennedy's comments came after presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater told reporters at the White House that the administration is ``for civil rights legislation'' but ``we are simply not for that bill.'' The Kennedy bill is aimed at restoring legal tools that civil rights forces say were taken away by six Supreme Court decisions last year. Provisions range from a ban on harassment of employees to expanding workers' rights to challenge seniority systems based on discrimination. The heart of the bill, based on a case at a salmon cannery in Alaska, would force employers accused of discrimination to change their hiring practices or prove that the practices were based on business necessity. Attorney General Dick Thornburgh said in his letter to Kennedy on Tuesday that this provision, aimed at overturning the Supreme Court's ``Wards Cove'' decision last year, would in effect result in racial hiring quotas. Kennedy said in his statement that while ``giving lip service to the fight to end bigotry, the administration is clinging to its do-as-little-as-possible response to the Supreme Court's recent decisions, which dramatically cut back on long-accepted protections for working men and women against discrimination on the job.'' ``The administration is digging in its heels at a time when a bipartisan majority in the Congress and the country want to see those decisions overturned and the gaps in our civil rights laws filled,'' Kennedy said. The Bush administration is calling for approval of a more modest job-discrimination bill, which would address two of last year's rulings. ``We are interested in correcting problems which arose from last year's Supreme Court cases,'' Fitzwater said. Kennedy's Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee on Wednesday approved his measure, 11-5, with support from Sens. David Durenberger, R-Minn., and James Jeffords, R-Vt. Durenberger told the panel that the administration would not act on civil rights without pressure from the committee. The measure now has 40 Senate co-sponsors and civil rights forces say they have enough votes for passage. But conservative critics led by Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, say they hope to ease some of its provisions in floor action. Hatch told the committee that the measure would create a ``bonanza for lawyers'' while Sen. Nancy Kassebaum, R-Kan., declared that it would ``add litigation.''
AP880910-0013 	X	Democratic vice presidential nominee Lloyd Bentsen is fighting for votes in California by blasting the Republicans on labor issues and trying to show strength where the Democrats have a weak image: law and order. Bentsen today planned to visit Operation Safe Streets, a Los Angeles County Sheriff's Office program in the Los Angeles suburb of Carson to combat crime, including gang violence. The Texas senator has criticized the Reagan administration for cutting money to help local law enforcement efforts. He also planned to attend a rally today in San Diego before returning to Los Angeles for a dinner honoring California Assembly Speaker Willie Brown. On Friday in Bloomington east of Los Angeles, Bentsen attended a rally in a union hall to where he took part in the Democratic campaign to give 60 days notice to the Republicans before election day. Bentsen told the cheering crowd, many waving giant ``pink slips'' for George Bush, that ``We're here today to give the Republicans a better break than they give the American worker.'' ``Sure, we could provide notice the Republican way,'' he said. ``We could go there election eve and we could change the locks on the door. ``We could take the vice president's White House mess card and cancel that. And we could take away Air Force Two,'' he said. ``But we agree with the vast majority of the American people who say 60 days notice is fair.'' Bentsen, digging at Bush as he mined for California's 47 electoral votes, said the vice president has had many ``conversions'' on issues lately. ``He's like a successful missionary. He has a conversion every day,'' Bentsen said. ``But the only problem (is) he's converting himself. Last week he discovered the environment. This week he discovered the minimum wage and said well maybe, maybe it should be raised. And the next day he really wasn't so sure.'' Earlier Friday, Bentsen told farmers in Amana, Iowa, that Bush and his running mate, Dan Quayle, don't understand rural needs. Asked by reporters about Michael Dukakis' controversial statement during the primaries suggesting that farmers grow Belgian endives to help solve their problems, Bentsen said the Massachusetts governor now has a better understanding. ``I'm sure he does,'' Bentsen said.
AP881223-0066 	X	Algerians re-elected Chadli Bendjedid to his third presidential term by a smaller margin than ever before, but still gave him a mandate to continue reforms that began two months ago. Thg Interior Ministry announced early today that Bendjedid, the single candidate, had captured 81 percent of Thursday's vote. About 89 percent of the country's 12 million eligible voters cast ballots. Voter turnout in Algeria traditionally runs at about 90 percent. As in most one-party states where a single candidate is on the ballot, voter abstention is seen as the only real form of dissent in elections. Although still winning a high percentage of votes, the win was 14 percent smaller than 1984 when Bendjedid garnered 95 percent of the vote with voter turnout at about 95 percent. In 1979, he took 94 percent. While reflecting a decline in popularity, the election still gives Bendjedid a clear mandate to continue with the economic reforms introduced after a week of rioting in early October that claimed 176 lives. Rioters filled the streets to protest high unemployment, inflation and a chronic housing shortage. In an effort to restore calm, Bendjedid promised a more liberal political system and less central control of both the economy and society. In his third term, Bendjedid faces the task of reducing the power of a military and civilian bureaucracy that has built a comfortable position in the 25 years since independence from France. He also has promised to loosen the grip of the National Liberation Front, the only legal political party, on all aspects of Algerian life. One problem is how to permit more autonomy and democratic freedom without allowing opposition parties. The severe economic problems remain, many traceable to several years of low oil prices on world markets. Unemployment and annual inflation have surpassed 20 percent and the foreign debt is $23 billion.
AP900801-0059 	X	The dollar firmed against European currencies this morning but dropped against the Japanese yen. Spot gold prices regained some of the ground lost in Tuesday's trading in New York. In Tokyo, the dollar sank to its lowest level since February 23. It closed at 146.65 yen, down 0.85 yen from Tuesday. Later in London, the dollar was quoted at 146.12 yen. Other dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Tuesday: _1.5889 German marks, up from 1.5875 _1.3514 Swiss francs, up from 1.3475 _5.3315 French francs, up from 5.3210 _1.7905 Dutch guilders, up from 1.7880 _1,163.25 Italian lire, up from 1,162.00 _1.1511 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1523 In London, one British pound cost $1.8572, down from late Tuesday's $1.8595. Dealers in Tokyo said institutional investors, noting the narrowing gap between U.S. and Japanese interest rates, began dumping dollars as soon as the Tokyo market opened and the U.S. unit fell below 146 yen. Once that happened, ``there was a greater than expected demand for the dollar below the 146-yen line,'' said Yutaka Hayashi, a dealer with the Mitsui Taiyo Kobe Bank. Several analysts believe the dollar will sink as low as 140 yen this summer, and perhaps dip below 1.5620 Deutsche marks, the lowest level since World War II. ``There is not a lot of reason why the market should start buying the dollar,'' said Jim O'Neil, international economist at Swiss Bank Corp in London. The dollar's weakness in the foreign exchanges is helping support gold prices, although dealers are debating whether gold has sufficient support to move convincingly into a technical chart resistance area between $373.00 and $375.00 an ounce. Gold rebounded this morning from an earlier retreat in New York, where it was quoted at $370.20 bid late Tuesday. In London, gold was quoted at $371.10 per ounce at the morning fixing, compared to $372.05 a troy ounce late Tuesday. The Zurich market was closed for a national holiday. In Hong Kong, gold rose $2.04 per ounce to close at $371.46 per ounce. Silver bullion traded late in London at a bid price of $4.83 a troy ounce, down from $4.85.
AP880509-0137 	X	The man Michael Dukakis left ``minding the store'' in Massachusetts while running for president is a veteran of 40 years in and around government. Hale Champion has been a reporter, a Harvard official, an aide to California Gov. Pat Brown and a health official in the Carter administration. Balding, rotund and 65, Champion gives the impression that he's seen it all and that nothing fazes him _ not complaining legislators or angry lobbyists, budget shortfalls or the way the news media covers it all. To read one Boston newspaper, Dukakis' chief secretary said in an interview last week, ``you would have thought blood was coursing through the corridors of the Statehouse, entrails draped over the balconies. ``Where? Who? I mean it's simply a bunch of people doing their work.'' Just doing your job. ``That's the way he looks at it,'' Champion said of his boss, the governor who has risen to become the Democratic presidential front-runner. ``Sometimes that's why people think he's not exciting enough, not emotional enough.'' But, said Champion, ``that's what I like about him. I mean that's what gets things done. That's what gets things taken care of, not emoting hour after hour. ``And if that says I am unemotional about those things, maybe I am.'' Champion's strength is that ``there isn't anything that he can think of that he hasn't seen before,'' said Dukakis' press secretary James Dorsey. ``He's sort of like a deeply set foundation'' for the administration. Champion himself was a press secretary, and then executive secretary and finance director for Brown, who was Ronald Reagan's predecessor as governor of California. His career also includes financial vice presidencies at the University of Minnesota and Harvard University; a stint as director of the Boston Redevelopment Authority, when he first met Dukakis, and two years as undersecretary to Joseph Califano at the Department of Health, Education and Welfare in the Carter administration. He was in semi-retirement as executive dean of Harvard's Kennedy School of Government when Dukakis tapped him to become his chief secretary a year ago. ``I was never interested in working, you need to understand,'' he said with a smile. ``He resisted my arguments and persuaded my wife, and here I am.'' Considering Champion's background and symmetry of thinking with Dukakis, little had to be discussed between the two on what the job entailed. ``He and I both assumed that I knew what `minding the store' meant,'' Champion said. He has faced comparisons to John Sasso, the politically savvy, longtime Dukakis associate who had been chief secretary before moving over to run the campaign. Sasso later left over his part in the ``attack video'' episode that helped drive Sen. Joseph Biden from the presidential race. Some lawmakers have criticized the lack of courting they get from Champion. ``I don't do as much of it as John did ... never will, never did when I did this kind of job before (for Brown),'' Champion said. But he keeps in close contact with legislative leaders, and that to Champion is most important. While Champion frequently remarks on how there is nothing new under the sun in his job, there are some aspects that are different in keeping an administration going while the chief executive is running for president. First, he must make sure Dukakis is abreast of events back in the state while the governor spends three or more days a week on the campaign trail. Second, he has been chiefly in charge of bringing Dukakis' constitutional successor, Lt. Gov. Evelyn Murphy, more into the daily operations of the administration. And third, he has found that virtually every administration initiative _ from a universal health care bill to the state budget _ and many bills being pushed by individual lawmakers are publicly cast in the context of the impact on Dukakis' presidential campaign. ``At first I did get a little bit (upset),'' said Champion. ``It's ridiculous, but it's every single thing.'' But Champion said Dukakis and his administration have tried to solve any problems in that area by living the old saying, ``What's good politics is good government.'' ``If you look like you are doing what you ought to be doing generally, as against a gimme here and a gimme there, that's the best politics,'' Champion said. ``As a matter of fact, that's why Michael is where he is today, because he has always taken that kind of attitude.'' Champion said he isn't interested in a return trip to Washington if Dukakis is elected. Rather, he's counting down the last months he believes he will be in his present post and is looking beyond the part-time teaching position waiting for him at Harvard. What he's really looking forward to, he said, ``is that time when I am not even teaching.''
AP901124-0046 	X	Amid charges that Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher was undermined by her own party, an opinion poll released today indicated three candidates for her job would bring the Conservatives an election victory. Under Mrs. Thatcher's leadership, the governing party had trailed Labor in opinion polls for 16 months. Labor is the main opposition party in Parliament. But a poll of about 1,100 voters Friday found that more voters preferred either former Defense Secretary Michael Heseltine or Chancellor of the Exchequer John Major, to Labor Party leader Neil Kinnock. Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd would put the Tories neck and neck with Labor, with Hurd having a slight edge, according to the poll, taken by ICM for the Sunday Correspondent newspaper. The poll was published today. Forty-seven percent of people asked would vote for Heseltine, compared with 38 percent who would vote Labor, according to the poll of 1,139 people. Major received 46 percent of the vote, compared with 39 percent for Labor, and Hurd had 43 percent of the vote, compared with Labor's 41 percent, the poll showed. No margin of error was given. No poll can be 100 percent accurate, however, and there is usually a margin of error of at least two or three percentage points with a sample of that size, poll watchers said. The 372 Conservative Party members of the House of Commons will vote for a leader on Tuesday. If none of the three candidates receives a majority, a third ballot will be held Thursday. Mrs. Thatcher resigned on Thursday, after it appeared she would lose a Conservative Party leadership vote to Haseltine, who had made a strong showing in a first round of leadership balloting last Tuesday. Hurd and Major, Cabinet ministers no longer shackled by loyalty, immediately jumped into the leadership contest with Heseltine. The latest poll is similar to the findings of a Harris poll released Friday by Independent Television News that also predicted an upturn in Conservative Party fortunes under a new prime minister. That poll, of 1,107 voters on Thursday, found that the Conservatives, with any of the three candidates as leader, would beat Labor if a general election were held immediately. A general election must be held before mid-1992. The poll found voters ranked the candidates in the same order - with Heseltine leading Labor by 10 points, Major by seven points and Hurd by four. No margin of error was given in the Harris poll. Supporters of the 65-year-old Mrs. Thatcher have angrily accused Conservatives of what one called ``political matricide'' in forcing her to quit after 15 years as party leader and 11{ years as prime minister. High inflation, rising interest rates, an unpopular new tax and her lone opposition among European Community leaders to financial and political integration were among factors that undermined her support. Cabinet colleagues and campaign managers told her she could not muster enough support to win in further balloting next week. Her opponents in the party feared that under her continuing leadership the Conservatives would lose to Labor at the next general election. Labor has been in opposition since 1979. Conservative legislators returning home for the weekend were met Friday by anger from grass-roots backers of Mrs. Thatcher. Peter Stainforth, local Conservative Party treasurer at Stevenage, about 25 miles north of central London, reported particular rancor over Sir Geoffrey Howe. The deputy prime minister quit on Nov. 1 and bitterly attacked Mrs. Thatcher in a Commons speech on Nov. 13. ``I cannot express how the constituency feels about that latter-day Brutus who was the first to plunge his dagger into his leader's back,'' Stainforth said.
AP880730-0037 	X	West Germany outdistanced the United States as the world's biggest exporter for the second year in a row, according to the International Monetary Fund. West German exports amounted to $294 billion, compared with $250 billion for the United States and $231 billion for Japan in 1987, the IMF said. West German exports, which first jumped ahead of U.S. exports in 1986, also ran ahead of U.S. exports for the first two months of 1988: $46.7 billion for West Germany compared with $45.9 billion for the United States. U.S. imports in 1987 were $424 billion, compared with $228 billion for West Germany, $158 billion for France, $154 billion for Britain and $151 billion for Japan. The IMF figures, in an IMF publication released Friday, show total trade increased 10 percent in 1986 and 18 percent in 1987. The fund reported that trade among the biggest countries remained far out of balance in 1986 and 1987. The United States imported much more than it exported, while the reverse was true for Japan and West Germany. The IMF said U.S. sales grew by 15.2 percent and purchases by 9.6 percent in 1987 over the year earlier, while Japan's exports rose up 9.3 percent and imports were up 18.2 percent and Germany's imports and exports each grew by about 20 percent. Both Japan and West Germany have been undr international pressure, especially from the United States, to increase their imports and curb their exports. Last year's total trade marked a return to the annual average of the 1970s, the publication noted. The IMF said trade within the European Economic Community increased ``at substantially higher rates in 1986 and 1987 than overall trade within industrial countries.'' ``The trade of developing countries also grew substantially, reversing the stagnation of the previous three years,'' it added. The fund includes among ``developing countries'' its other 131 members, many of them poorer lands where incomes have declined, like much of Africa and Latin America, as well as more prosperous countries where conditions are improving, such as South Korea and Singapore.
AP880728-0190 	X	Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher told the House of Commons on Thursday that she welcomed New York City Mayor Ed Koch's change of heart on the subject of Northern Ireland. Koch completed a six-day tour of Northern Ireland and returned to New York, where on Wednesday he publicly disavowed his earlier opinions about the British stance on the troubled province. Koch said he accepted the British army as a peacekeeping force rather than an occupying army. Mrs. Thatcher told members of Parliament in the elected lower chamber: ``If more people came with an open mind and looked at what is happening on the ground, we would have many others making similar remarks.'' ``I admire Mr. Koch's forthrightness and I am glad he took time to come to Northern Ireland,'' she added. In Belfast, Koch was described as one of the few American politicians of stature who have had anything positive to say about Britain's role in Northern Ireland. ``His comments after his factfinding visit to Ireland are as refreshing as they are surprising'' the Belfast Telegraph, Northern Ireland's independent evening newspaper, commented editorially on Thursday. ``Compare his statement `My impression is that the British are trying to play a constructive role' with the attack launched by Congressman Joe Kennedy after his visit earlier this year'' the newspaper said, refering to the Democratic U.S. representative from Massachusetts. ``Mr. Koch has shown an attitude uncommon in American politicians when dealing with the Irish problem _ a willingness to view the situation with an open mind. ``He is also honest enough to admit that his vision of Ulster from across the Atlantic did not square up with what he found here: `I do not believe that they (the British) deserve the castigation that many of us, myself included, have heaped upon them,''' the Belfast Telegraph quoted Koch as saying. ``Too many people in the international community mistake the myths and propaganda emanating from these shores for facts and believe a British withdrawal is the simplistic solution to all our ills. Mayor Koch realizes the problems are much more complex than other `green-tinted' visionaries understand,'' the newspaper said. ``Of course, the hardline Irish-American lobbyists will attempt to make political capital from his comments but those Americans who are willing to listen will learn much more about the reality of life in Ireland today from Mayor Koch. ``They should, as must the people of Ulster, learn that harboring grievances for past errors or wrongs will not further the quest for peace here,'' the newspaper said. ``There have been historical mistakes in Ireland, on all sides, but acknowledgment should also be given, as Mayor Koch does, for the positive contributions made in areas like housing, jobs and electoral representation. We can build on gains not divisions.''
AP900513-0084 	X	Nearly 20 years after Peach County High School was integrated, black and white students got together Saturday night for their first integrated prom. Many of the 200 students who attended the dance said the change was long overdue. ``Somebody is going to come along every time and break some tradition that's really stupid, some tradition you don't really think about because you've always done it,'' said Hope Bickley, a white 17-year-old. ``I'm glad it was our class that broke it.'' Ms. Bickley and Ato Crumbly, a black student, are friends who have known each other since elementary school and march together in the school band. But although Crumbly said blacks and whites ``get along fairly well'' at school, they'd never had an integrated prom. ``We go to school together, play football together, run track together, so why can't we socialize together,'' Crumbly said Saturday at the formal dance in the school gym. ``I go out of town a lot in the summer, to Las Vegas and California,'' he added ``I'd tell (friends) about the prom and they'd say `What?' And they'd ask, `Do y'all still have to drink out of separate fountains?'' All school dances and parties were canceled by the Peach County school board in the early 1960s when a student apparently was injured during a prom. Board members also said planning the dances took time away from schoolwork. Without a school-sponsored prom, parents began organizing their own _ one for blacks, one for whites. But three years ago, Peach County's parent-teacher group, the Better Schools Association, tried to change the board's policy. The board promptly rejected their request for an integrated prom. Last year, the board changed its position, and Saturday's prom was held without incident. ``This prom,'' Crumbly said, ``will be a good experience.'' Susan Jordan, president of the parent-teacher organization, said the students set an example for their community. ``A child shall lead them,'' she said, quoting the Bible. ``Well, in this case, a group of children shall perhaps lead the community, and won't that be great? And isn't it about time?''
AP880520-0334 	X	Income tax payments in April helped shrink the federal budget deficit, but the monthly surplus was less than a year ago, leaving government red ink so far this year 24.6 percent higher than 1987, the Treasury Department said Friday. The April surplus of $13.9 billion, representing the difference between what the government took in and what it spent last month, helped hold the deficit for the first seven months of the fiscal year to $105.0 billion. But that figure was much higher than the $84.3 billion in red ink during the first seven months of fiscal year 1987, when the total annual deficit eventually amounted to $150.2 billion. Economists say the April report indicates the Reagan administration will have a tough time meeting its goal of a $146.7 billion deficit for fiscal 1988, which ends Sept. 30, or even the Congressional Budget Office projection of $157 billion. Michael K. Evans, head of an economic forcasting service in Washington, said the April report indicates the deficit for the year will be between $170 billion and $175 billion. ``April's the big month. After that, it's all arithmetic. ... The belief that it was going to stay below $150 billion was just pure fiction,'' he said. The 1988 deficit target in the Gramm-Rudman deficit-reduction law is $144 billion. Budget Director James C. Miller III warned Congress on Tuesday that an across-the-board cut in federal programs, which would occur in October under the law, was ``perilously close.'' The April surplus, bolstered by $53.3 billion in individual income tax payments, was about $5 billion less than expected by private economists. They had been waiting for the report to see what effect the new income tax law would have. Some had thought the new tax law would provide a small windfall. However, Evans said the average, median taxpayer enjoyed a tax cut. ``People who used deductions and shelters paid more than they did the year before, but the rank and file paid less,'' he said. April income tax collections were 25.8 percent less than the same month a year earlier, which was inflated by the rush to take capital gains in 1986 before the favorable rates on that kind of income disappeared under the new tax law. Personal income tax collections of $237.6 billion for the first seven months of the fiscal year are running 2.7 percent behind last year. However, that has been offset somewhat by corporate income tax collections of $50.6 billion, 8.4 percent greater than last year. In April, all government revenue totaled $109.3 billion, 11.0 percent lower than April 1987. Spending totaled $95.4 billion, 13.6 percent ahead of the same month a year earlier. For the first seven months, revenues totaled $522.1 billion, up 3 percent over 1987, while spending was $627.1 billion, up 6.1 percent from the same period a year ago. As usual, the largest spending categories in April were the military, followed by Social Security, other programs in the Department of Health and Human Services and interest on the national debt. Military spending totaled $26.1 billion last month and $168.4 billion for the fiscal year so far, up 6.3 percent from the same period a year ago. Spending for Social Security totaled $16.3 billion last month and $121.3 billion for the past seven months, up 5.7 percent from the same period in the 1987 fiscal year. Social Security is exempted from budget limitations under the Gramm-Rudman deficit-reduction law and most months has been showing faster spending increases than the other categories. The other programs in the Department of Health and Human Services, including Medicare and Medicaid, spent $15.7 billion in April and $93.2 billion so far this budget year, a 6.5 percent increase over 1987. Interest on the $2.5 trillion national debt totaled $14.9 billion last month and $120.1 billion so far this fiscal year, an increase of 9.5 percent over the same period last year.
AP901016-0123 	X	Here is a list of winners of the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science: 1990 - Harry M. Markowitz, United States 1990 - William F. Sharpe, United States 1990 - Merton Miller, United States 1989 - Trygve Haavelmo, Norway 1988 - Maurice Allais, France 1987 - Robert M. Solow, United States 1986 - James M. Buchanan Jr., United States 1985 - Franco Modigliani, United States 1984 - Richard Stone, Great Britain 1983 - Gerard Debreu, United States 1982 - George J. Stigler, United States 1981 - James Tobin, United States 1980 - Lawrence R. Klein, United States 1979 - Arthur Lewis, Great Britain 1979 - Theodore W. Schultz, United States 1978 - Herbert A. Simon, United States 1977 - Bertil Ohlin, Sweden 1977 - James Meade, Great Britain 1976 - Milton Friedman, United States 1975 - Leonid Vitalievich Kantorovich, Soviet Union 1975 - Tjalling Koopmans, United States 1974 - Gunnar Myrdal, Sweden 1974 - Friedrich August von Hayek, Great Britain 1973 - Wassily Leontief, United States 1972 - John R. Hicks, Great Britain 1972 - Kenneth J. Arrow, United States 1971 - Simon Kuznets, United States 1970 - Paul A. Samuelson, United States 1969 - Ragnar Frisch, Norway 1969 - Jan Tinbergen, Netherlands
AP881109-0003 	X	Maryland's landmark law banning cheap handguns won surprisingly easy approval Tuesday, a victory that gun control forces say could reignite their movement in other states. With 82 percent of the precincts reporting, those favoring the law totaled 656,598 or 58 percent, to 482,974 or 42 percent against. The law was winning by wide margins in urban areas to offset heavy support for repeal in rural counties. The gun law battle provoked a bitter political fight that become the most expensive in state history. The National Rifle Association spent more $4 million to repeal the Maryland statute.
AP880623-0194 	X	The judge in the Iran-Contra case complained Thursday about more delays in bringing Oliver L. North to trial and called on the Reagan administration to speed up the declassification of necessary documents if it wants the case to go forward. ``The highest levels of the government have to make a decision as to whether this case is going to go or if it's not going to go,'' Gesell said during a hearing on the problems posed by reams of secret government documents collected by independent counsel Lawrence E. Walsh. The judge expressed frustration over Walsh's request for a one-month delay in getting 150,000 pages of secret documents cleared by an interagency task force. ``If you can't get a trial going soon there isn't going to be a trial,'' Gesell warned both sides during the hearing in U.S. District Court. Gesell said he was not ready to schedule a trial of the former White House aide, even though he had been preparing to set a date. ``I anticipated when I came on the bench of issuing a trial date notice tomorrow. I'm not going to do that. The case isn't ready,'' the judge said. Gesell suggested that Attorney General Edwin Meese III designate a Justice Department official to review the situation to help the administration decide whether it is ready to release secret documents or whether the case has to be dismissed. The judge questioned whether ``we won't need to have a clear decision from the administration itself that they want to try this case or they don't want to.'' Walsh said he already has consulted with Deputy Assistant Attorney General John Martin about the secrecy problems and would meet with other senior Justice Department officials. Some 82,000 pages of classified documents, many from the National Security Council where North worked until he was fired in November 1986, already have been turned over to the defense for pretrial review. Of that group, Walsh said a ``much smaller number but still a large number'' of documents will be relevant to the case. The prosecutor repeated previous assertions that the batch of unprocessed 150,000 pages from the CIA or the Justice Department contained little that would be relevant to the defense case. Walsh said the task force, composed of representatives of agencies that originate the documents, needs more time to mark the portions of the documents that must be redacted before they can be introduced at trial. Gesell said he had deferred to the interagency task force out of concern for national security concerns about disclosing the documents in open court. But ``the obstacles keep arising,'' the judge said. Although he expressed confidence ``they are not trying to torpedo the case or help the case,'' the task force members ``are not in the position to judge the larger implications of the case,'' Gesell said. The judge said a high-level political decision is needed on what material the administration will allow to be disclosed in court. On Wednesday, Gesell had ordered North to specify by July 11 what secret government documents he intended to disclose in court to defend the charges against him. North, along with former national security adviser John M. Poindexter and arms dealers Albert Hakim and Richard V. Secord, are accused of conspiring to illegally divert U.S.-Iran arms-sale profits to the Nicaraguan rebels during a ban on such aid. The judge has ordered four separate trials. North was designated as the leadoff defendant by Walsh. The issue involves classified documents that North and, ultimately, his three co-defendants would be allowed to introduce into evidence to rebut the charges. Under the Classified Information Procedures Act, a defendant must notify the government of secret documents he wants to disclose in court. The judge then decides whether the documents are indeed relevant to the case. Under the law, Gesell can order the substitution of secret documents that government doesn't want released with statements of facts the material would prove if presented to the jury. He can also dismiss the charges if there are too many secret documents that the government wants withheld from the case. An alternative to dismissing all the charges would be to force North to stand trial on some of the counts contained in the indictment that wouldn't require extensive use of classified documents. These might include charges that North lied to Congress about his role in the covert effort to help the Nicaraguan rebels and allegations he obstructed a presidential inquiry into the Iran-Contra affair by destroying documents. Walsh's request to delay production of the remaining documents and a defense complaint about the slow pace of pre-trial discovery prompted Gesell to convene the hearing. Among other things, the defense complained that it has yet to receive any of the government documents that Walsh's investigators were allowed to look at but could not copy. These include relevant pages of President Reagan's diary and schedule.
AP900108-0085 	X	Police said Monday they have arrested a man in Hong Kong in connection with the seizure of 143 pounds of heroin concealed in cans of Chinese fruit imported to Los Angeles. The man was arrested Saturday after U.S. authorities discovered the high-grade heroin hidden in 192 cans of litchis in syrup found in Los Angeles last month, police said. The drugs would have sold for about $64 million in the United States, the statement said. Officers of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency and U.S. Customs also arrested two men _ a Chinese and a Vietnamese _ in Alhambra, Calif., on Saturday in connection with the drug bust, the statement said. The man in Hong Kong was arrested after police raided sites in the colony and uncovered a drug packaging center in an industrial building, police said. No names were released and investigations into the case were continuing.
AP900301-0050 	X	More than 40 firefighters worked all day to remove the bodies of four children and three adults killed in a fire that engulfed a house. The fire quickly burned out of control around before dawn Wednesday and causd the roof and floor to fall into the basement, making it difficult to reach the bodies, said Fire Chief Victor Hilbert. The cause of the fire wasn't known. A neighbor who called the Fire Department said it was impossible to get close enough to attempt a rescue. ``It was all in flames when I came out. The windows were popping out,'' said Larry Riker. Killed were David Forquer; his wife, LeAnne, 25; their children, Michael, 8; Christor, 6; Nona, 5; and Louis, 3, and a man whose identity was not released.
AP900820-0114 	X	Twenty black, angular F-117A Stealth fighters kicked up rooster tails of spray Monday as they took off on wet runways at Langley Air Force Base for their much-publicized deployment to the Middle East. One of the planes returned shortly after takeoff under clouds and periodic showers. Air Force officials were unable to say why the plane turned back. Air Force Col. Ron Sconyers, spokesman for the Tactical Air Command at Langley, said it would take the radar-evading planes 12 to 15 hours and several in-flight refuelings to reach bases in Saudi Arabia. Air Force officials were mum on exactly what role will be played by the F-117A, which is designed to bomb targets behind enemy lines. Unlike some other aircraft sent to the area after the Aug. 2 Iraqi invasion and occupation of Kuwait, the F-117A cannot be considered a defensive weapon, said Col. Anthony Tolin, assistant deputy chief of staff of the Tactical Air Command at Langley, and wing commander for the Stealth fighters until last week. ``I think they provide a great deal of deterrence. The Iraqis know we can get in, hit the target, and get out without ever appearing on their radar. That has to give them pause,'' Tolin said Sunday when the planes arrived. ``They give us an ability, should we need it, to get in with the least amount of casualties and attack those important targets if necessary,'' Tolin said. The planes saw combat during the Panama invasion when they attacked a radar site. The fighters flew to Langley from their home base at Nellis Air Force Base in Nevada. Technicians and ground support personnel also were en route to Saudi Arabia. Sconyers said two of the fighters were held back for maintenance reasons. The $42.6 million-a-copy F-117A is one of the most expensive planes the Pentagon ever launched. Billions were spent on the research necessary to make the plane invisible to radar. It was once so secret the Air Force flew it only at night missions high above the Nevada desert. The plane was designed and built by Lockheed Co.'s super-secret ``Skunk Works'' plant in Burbank, Calif.
AP880623-0048 	X	Atlanta Mayor Andrew Young says the city is moving along with preparations for next month's Democratic National Convention despite criticism of ``chaos and confusion'' in the convention planning. ``I don't know what (they're) talking about in terms of confusion and chaos,'' Young said on Wednesday. ``Peace and quiet and tranquility and everybody getting along is not news, and that's what we got.'' Young was responding to recent news articles that reported bad judgment calls by convention planners working on space for convention sessions and hotel accommodations. The articles also said some major transportation routes are still under construction and convention planners have been fighting among themselves. ``I don't care what people say about Atlanta. Anybody who doesn't like Atlanta can go somewhere else,'' Young said. ``This is a building and growing city and it will be for some years to come, but whatever we need for the convention is going to be ready by the time the convention gets here.'' Young estimated the city is about ``85 to 90 percent ready'' for the convention, a condition with which he is ``very comfortable.''
AP901012-0082 	X	Rebounding automobile purchases and surging gasoline prices powered retail sales to a strong 1.1 percent gain in September, the government said Friday. That was the biggest advance in four months, but economists said the two special factors were masking an otherwise weak report, which included a large decline in department store sales. Sales figures are not adjusted to factor out price increases. Gasoline costs have shot up since Iraq occupied Kuwait Aug. 2, inflating that sales category. The recovery in auto sales was positive but came after months of deteriorating sales, analysts said. Overall, sales rose $1.6 billion to a seasonally adjusted $151.2 billion, the Commerce Department said. That followed a 0.4 percent decline in August. ``What is underscored by these numbers is that the process of economic decline is a very slow one. Consumers take two steps backward and then one step forward, at least if they're given a bargain as they were with autos,'' said economist David Jones of Aubrey G. Lanston & Co. Retail sales are an important barometer of economic health because they represent about one-third of the nation's economic activity. ``Consumers are gradually becoming increasingly cautious because they see the oil price s Forward 1346 1347 1360 1362 n.q.-not quoted.
AP880919-0069 	X	Beulah Mae Donald, who won a $7 million judgment against the Ku Klux Klan for the beating death of her son, was remembered by the attorney who handled the case as a ``brave and courageous mother.'' Mrs. Donald died of natural causes Saturday at a Mobile hospital. She was 67. ``She'll forever have a place in history as the woman who beat the Klan,'' said Morris Dees, who was the chief attorney for the black family. Mrs. Donald's son, Michael, was strangled and fatally beaten in Baldwin County and his body was found hanged from a tree in a Mobile neighborhood. Two Ku Klux Klansmen were convicted in the case. On Feb. 12, 1987, a jury awarded the family a $7 million judgment against the Klan. The United Klans of America's national headquarters building in Tuscaloosa, its only asset, was later signed over to the estate of Michael Donald and sold for an undisclosed sum. It had been appraised at between $150,000 and $200,000. ``I just think she was a brave and courageous mother whose love for her son ensured that he did not die in vain,'' said Dees, director of the Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery. Last December, Mrs. Donald was named one of Ms. Magazine's 1987 Women of the Year. Shortly after receiving the honor, Mrs. Donald said she never sought revenge. ``I wanted to know who all really killed my child,'' she said. ``I wasn't even thinking about the money. If I hadn't gotten a cent, it wouldn't have mattered. I wanted to know how and why they did it.'' He 19-year-old son was kidnapped from a Mobile street in March 1981 and taken to a rural area where he was beaten and choked. His throat was cut and his body was hanged from a tree. Klansmen Henry Francis Hays has been sentenced to die in Alabama's electric chair and James L. ``Tiger'' Knowles is serving a life sentence in a federal prison. He pleaded guilty to violating Donald's civil rights. The U.S. Supreme Court refused to hear Hays' appeal of his capital murder conviction in February. In February, a mistrial was declared in the trial of two alleged accomplices, Bennie Jack Hays and Benjamin Franklin Cox, after the former collapsed in court. Mrs. Donald survivors include four daughters: Mary A. Houston of Jackson, Miss.; Cecelia Perry; Cynthia Mitchell; and Betty J. Wyatt, all of Mobile; and two sons, Stanley Donald of Biloxi, Miss.; and Leo Donald of Detroit, Mich. Funeral arrangements were incomplete.
AP900210-0139 	X	Senators of both parties on Saturday hailed the plan to free black leader Nelson Mandela from a South African prison and called on both sides in that strife-torn nation to begin meaningful negotiations. ``It's the right move,'' Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., said. ``Now comes the real test for South Africa _ will there be peace as meaningful negotiations move forward? Let's hope so.'' The comment came in a statement released by Dole's office after South African President F.W. de Klerk announced that the African National Congress leader would be freed Sunday after 27 years. De Klerk also said the state of emergency under which freedoms have been suspended in South Africa could be lifted within weeks if conditions of stability prevail across the country following Mandela's release. Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., chief Senate sponsor of legislation to impose sanctions on South Africa, said in a statement that ``freedom for Nelson Mandela means that freedom is closer for all the people of South Africa.'' ``His unjust imprisonment has long been the symbol of the cruelty and injustice of the racist system of apartheid.'' Kennedy said. He expressed hope that ``today's historic development marks the beginning of a genuine commitment by President de Klerk and his government to dismantle all aspects of apartheid as soon as possible.'' Sen. Paul Simon, D-Ill., said in a telephone interview that the release of Mandela along with de Klerk's other remarks were ``welcome and significant.'' ``It is significant because without this there could be no real negotiations and when you couple this with President de Klerk's statement that within a few weeks he's going to completely lift the state of emergency, you have the conditions for a successful resolution of all this,'' he said. Sanctions against South Africa imposed by the United States and European countries were credited in large part for the change in course on the part of the South African government. The U.S. sanctions, imposed in 1986, barred new American investment in South Africa, including bank loans to the government; prohibited the import of South African iron, steel, coal, uranium and agricultural products, including sugar; prevented the United States from exporting computers to South Africa; banned all nuclear trade; and halted landings by South African Airways. The chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, Rep. Ron Dellums, D-Calif., said that the United States ``should continue to use the moral and economic lever of even more stringent sanctions as a vehicle for helping to accelerate and expedite the end of apartheid in a nonviolent context.'' ``While I welcome the release of Nelson Mandela from almost three decades of imprisonment for his political beliefs, I am concerned that no mention has been made about the release of more than 2,000 other black South Africans still in prison because of their struggle to end apartheid,'' Dellums said. Rep. Connie Morella, R-Md., who recently traveled to South Africa, issued a statement calling the release of Mandela ``a major step forward for President de Klerk'' and ``one indication that the winds of democracy that have swept across Europe may be reaching South Africa.'' ``However, before sanctions are relaxed or eliminated, several additional steps must be taken,'' she said. ``These include release of the many remaining political prisoners, lifting of the state of emergency and removal of troops from the townships.'' New York Mayor David N. Dinkins said Mandela ``could have been released a long time ago if he had compromised his principles.'' ``He is an inspiration to all those seeking freedom who will not compromise and I look forward to his unconditional release and the day all South Africans will be free,'' Dinkins said. ``Just because we freed one man doesn't mean we freed an entire nation,'' said Rep. William H. Gray III, D-Pa., the House majority whip and author of legislation imposing U.S. sanctions against South Africa. Rep. John Lewis, D-Ga., said Mandela's release marked ``a significant step'' toward peaceful political change in the country. However, Lewis, a former activist in the U.S. civil rights movement, also urged political leaders here to ``continue to apply pressure on the South Africa government in the form of economic sanctions.'' Randall Robinson, leader of the Washington-based anti-apartheid group TransAfrica, said pressure from the United States and Europe produced the release of Mandela. He described it as a ``tiny step.'' ``Political prisoners must still be released, parliament must repeal apartheid laws and until these things are done it is too early to evaluate the good faith of President de Klerk,'' he said. ``This is only the release of one great man,'' he said. Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C. and a leading conservative, was not planning a comment on the development, an aide said. Dole was the only Republican with a comment despite calls to spokesmen for several prominent GOP members of Congress.
AP880620-0265 	X	The United States and Japan reached a trade agreement Monday that could double U.S. exports of beef and oranges to more than $1 billion a year, U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said. ``My judgment is that this will turn out to be a landmark agreement in U.S.-Japan economic relations,'' Yeutter said following marathon talks with Japanese leaders. The agreement calls on Japan to nearly double its imports of beef by 1991, and phase out involvement by Livestock Industry Promotion Corp., which currently controls most beef imports. Japan would be allowed to set tariffs of 70 percent in 1991, 60 percent in 1992 and 50 percent in 1993 to allow Japanese farmers time to adjust. Japan agreed to expand market access for fresh oranges by 22,000 tons annually, to 192,000 tons in 1990. After that, fresh oranges from the United States would be permitted in unlimited quantities, at the current tariff rates of 40 percent in season and 20 percent off season. Quotas on orange juice will also be phased out. The United States also demanded and got compensation on tariffs for other farm products in return for concessions on allowing Japan to slowly phase out its tariffs. Included were liberalized restrictions on imports of grapefruit, lemons, frozen peaches and pears, pistachios, macadamias, pecans, walnuts, pet food, beef jerky, sausage and pork and beans. As part of the agreement, the United States agreed to withdraw a complaint filed with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the world body that oversees international trade. The two sides agreed to further discuss Japan's emergency import curbs during the current round of talks under GATT. The temporary agreement was signed by Yeutter and Takashi Sato, Japan's agriculture, forestry and fisheries minister. Yeutter said the official documents would be signed in Washington, hopefully in the next few weeks, after the United States gathers the documents it needs. Cabinet Secretary Minister Keizo Obuchi welcomed the agreement, telling a regular news conference Monday that ``it reconfirms that the United States and Japan are able to solve their problems through joint efforts.'' He said the agreement can be fully implemented without hurting Japanese farmers. Yeutter said the agreement ``will require some creative and innovative thinking'' on the part of Japanese officials in helping Japanese farmers adjust. However, he said Japanese consumers will benefit through an increased standard of living and cheaper prices, while Japan's economy will benefit through increased competition. He said the United States will be closely watching Japan to make sure the agreement is put into effect. A similar pact on computer chips came under attack last year after the United States accused Japan of circumventing the spirit of the agreement by selling computer chips at unfairly low prices through third countries. That battle is still being fought through GATT. Yeutter said that ``it would be unfortunate if government agencies were to attempt to circumvent the spirit of this agreement.'' Yeutter also said the United States has no plans at this time to expand its demands to include the liberalization of rice, another thorny issue in Japan-U.S. relations. However, he said he could not rule out that possibility in the future if the United States is provoked. While agreeing to eliminate the beef import restrictions, Japan retained the right to raise the tariffs temporarily by 25 percent if beef imports exceed the previous year's level by 20 percent. After the transitional period ending in 1993, Japan's beef tariffs will be subject to discussions in the GATT. Sato, the agriculture minister, said the Japanese government will soon begin negotiations with Australia, another major beef exporter, on the Japanese import restrictions. Associations of Japanese orange growers and cattle farmers criticized the agreement. ``As producers who had been closely following the course of negotiations, we can't help but keenly feel regret and anger,'' Mitsugu Horiuchi, president of the Central Union of Agricultural Cooperatives, said in a statement.
AP881027-0154 	X	``E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial'' soared into the stratosphere Thursday, the first day of the movie's release on videocassette. ``Nobody's buying just one,'' said Gail Boswell, manager of Tower Video. ``I had one customer come in and buy 120 cassettes. Others are buying two or three or four.'' Demand has been so great that MCA Home Video, the video's packager, has been unable to fill orders. Some retailers will receive only 75 percent of their requests. Boswell said she ordered 2,500 cassettes, expected 1,700 but received only 1,200. In any case, MCA Home Video, a subsidiary of MCA Inc., could enjoy revenues of close to $200 million from the ``E.T.'' sales. There are more than 11 million advance orders for the $24.95 video. Pepsi Cola is sponsoring a $5 ``E.T.'' rebate offer, and will promote the video in a $25 million advertising campaign. There is no Pepsi commercial on the video itself. Most movies are released within six months of their opening in movie theaters. ``E.T.,'' released in 1982, has never been shown on broadcast or cable television. The video release of the movie was delayed because Steven Spielberg, the film's director and producer, told Universal several years ago that he wanted the cassettes to be affordable. The previous low price for a major video release was last year's ``Top Gun,'' which sold for $26.95. About 3 million ``Top Gun'' cassettes were bought. ``Cinderella,'' which has sold more than 5 million copies in the last month, is priced at $26.99.
AP900716-0008 	X	A drive to change the way Americans elect their presidents is being pushed by a group that acknowledges Democrats stand to gain the most _ at least at first _ from tinkering with the Electoral College. The year-old Electoral Fairness Project, led by a Democrat, is trying to persuade states to abandon the winner-take-all method of doling out Electoral College votes to presidential candidates. The system has been nearly universal since 1836. But critics say it does not accurately reflect the popular vote and prompts candidates to avoid entire states they feel they can't win. Lately, the system has favored Republicans. ``In state after state, the voters are essentially written off by the numbers. People don't see the candidates, don't get a sense of what's going on,'' said Linda Tarr-Whelan, a board member of the Electoral Fairness Project. She said the changes advocated by the group ``would get people much more involved and would require candidates to look at virtually all the states and congressional districts at one time or another as they plan out their strategy.'' The Constitution determines how many electoral votes each state gets: one for each of its two senators and for each of its U.S. House members. How states divide up those votes is not dictated by the Constitution, but virtually all states award all their electoral votes to the candidate who wins the statewide popular vote. The fairness project wants other states to do what Maine did in 1969: give presidential candidates one electoral vote for each House district in which they win the popular vote, with the other two votes going to the winner of the statewide popular vote. The fairness project, run by Democrat Skip Roberts, admits its primary objective is to break the GOP lock on electoral votes in the South and parts of the Midwest. Some Republicans proposed the same changes 30 years ago when the GOP would have reaped the most benefit. But this year, state and national Republican leaders are heaping scorn on the tactic. ``The Democrats are resorting to gimmicks because they can't win on the strength of their ideas,'' said Ben Ginsberg, chief counsel to the Republican National Committee. Roberts denies he is promoting a gimmick. ``This is not a trick. You still need a nominee and a coherent campaign,'' he said. The Connecticut House adopted the fairness project's proposal this session but it died in the state Senate. In North Carolina, where the Republican governor has no veto, the House has passed the plan and the Democratic-controlled Senate was scheduled to vote today. Roberts still hopes that legislatures in Connecticut, New Jersey, Louisiana, Arkansas, Georgia and Indiana will revise their electoral systems before 1992, when the impact of the changes can be tested. Curtis Gans, director of the non-partisan Committee for the Study of the American Electorate, contends the changes would generate major improvements affecting both parties. Gans said the revised electoral system would stimulate more grassroots campaigning and less reliance on ``demagogic media appeals'' and ``unaccountable political consultants.'' It also would produce an Electoral College vote that more closely reflects the popular vote, he said. Few political scientists are as enthusiastic, nor do they see it being embraced in many states. Many say its virtues are subtle at best _ it is slightly more democratic and might put a few more states on the presidential campaign trail. Larry Sabato, an analyst at the University of Virginia, said the district-by-district allocation of electoral votes might even discourage candidates from visiting certain states. Contenders often write off states whose electoral vote total is insignificant, Sabato said. Parceling out those votes by congressional district ``would give even less of an incentive to come,'' he said. Nevertheless, Sabato said he supports the change because it would lessen the likelihood of an Electoral College victory by a candidate who had received a minority of the popular vote. That almost happened in 1976, when Jimmy Carter defeated Gerald Ford, and did happen three times between 1824 and 1888, he said. ``It would be a disaster today. I think people would take to the streets,'' Sabato said. That kind of emotion does not characterize the current debate. ``People just regard this as a woodwork issue,'' said Bruce Buchanan, a government professor at the University of Texas. ``It's way off the center of the plate.''
AP881102-0231 	X	Two teen-agers were sentenced to at least 50 years in prison Wednesday for murdering two Roman Catholic priests in their rectories. The trial judge, state Supreme Court Justice Frederick Marshall, sentenced the pair to the maximum term, and said he wished he could have imposed the death penalty, which was abolished in New York in 1965. Marshall told defendents Theodore Simmons, 19, and Milton Jones, 18, the sentence was meant to ``voice the outrage and disgust of the community.'' The two were convicted in separate trials of robbing, torturing and murdering the Rev. A. Joseph Bissonette, 55, in St. Bartholomew's Church on Feb. 24, 1987 and Monsignor David Herlihy, 74, in St. Matthew's church on March, 7, 1987. The crimes sent shock waves through the city, and terrorized churchmen. A clergyman from the poor neigborhood where the slayings occurred testified that he slept with a ceremonial sword at his bedside because he feared the tough youths who came to his rectory late at night looking for handouts. The defense for both Simmons and Jones claimed that the youths' underprivileged upbringing contributed to the crimes. The judge rejected the argument and said the pair ``stripped them (the priests) of all human dignity.'' In his final statement, Simmons, who tried to blame Jones for the killings, said, ``I did not kill anyone ... everything exploded in my face and I did not know what to do.'' Jones said through his attorney he was sorry for the crimes. ``Something happened that he got caught up in and just did not known how to extricate himself,'' Jones' attorney Jeffrey Sellers told the judge. Relatives of the two slain priests said they were struck by a lack of emotion from the defendants. Nan Gallivan, Monsignor Herlihy's niece, said the defendants did not appear remorseful at any time during the trial. Raymond Bissonette, brother of the Rev. Bissonette, said the prison terms were ``something that had to be done.'' Marshall sentenced Simmons and Jones to two consecutive 25 years-to-life terms, which means the pair will not be eligible for parole until they have served 48{ years, counting the time they already have been held.
AP901128-0015 	X	U.S. troops tired of waiting in the desert welcome the possibility of a U.N. resolution setting a January deadline for Iraq to pull out of Kuwait. ``The sooner they take immediate action, the sooner this'll get over and we can all go home,'' Air Force Sgt. Bill Hubbard, 21, of Tarpon Springs, Fla., said Tuesday. Some servicemen who arrived in Saudi Arabia soon after President Bush ordered troops to defend it on Aug. 7 said the United Nations should have set a deadline much earlier to prevent Saddam Hussein's forces from destroying Kuwait. ``He's been in Kuwait so long now, he's just raping the country,'' said Air Force Tech. Sgt. Ricky Presley, 32, of Little Rock, Ark., who arrived Aug. 16. ``I think we should never have let him do that in the first place. I think it (a deadline) should have happened a while back,'' he said. Capt. Ali, 34, a Kuwaiti army tank commander waiting to go on maneuvers about 40 miles from the Kuwaiti border, also believes a deadline should have been set ``as soon as they attacked Kuwait.'' ``I don't know why they are waiting ... We were ready to go months ago,'' said Ali, who refused to give his last name to protect his wife, parents and four children still in Kuwait. 1st Lt. Bruce Lake, 29, of Newport News, Va., a tank platoon commander who has spent more than three months in the desert, said he and his troops from the 69th Armored Regiment of the 24th Infantry Division would be delighted with a deadline. ``But I don't think it'll fly ... Just from my reading of the situation and listening to the news ... I haven't sensed that much unity and we still seem to be leading the way,'' he said. ``Either an operation or a go-home date is going to boost morale,'' he said. ``We feel that we have the forces we need over here to do the job and push this guy out if need be, and to go home.'' The U.N. Security Council is expected to meet Thursday to consider a draft resolution setting a Jan. 15 deadline for Iraq to withdraw from Kuwait, restore its government and release all foreign hostages. Lt. Col. Robert McCann, 42, of West Hope, N.D., said international support is important ``because in today's world no one nation can just do what they want to. That's why we're here.'' Air Force Staff Sgt. Jim White, 39, Fairfield, Calif., said U.N. support of the multinational force is essential to prevent similar aggression elsewhere. ``How many times in the past has the United States been the almost sole bearer of international disputes? Now, I feel if we don't come through on this one, it's going to have a domino effect,'' he said. As they stepped off a C-5 Galaxy transport after a 36-hour flight from Travis Air Force Base in California, some of the newest reinforcements for Operation Desert Shield were equally hopeful. ``We got to bring this thing to a head one way or the other,'' said Capt. Clarence Ryan, 40, of Laurel, Md., who was leading a unit of cooks and firefighters from the 60th Military Air Wing at Travis. ``The long waiting game, will it pay off? We don't know, but the longer we wait, the more Kuwait is being torn up.'' After two months with a combat unit in the desert, Staff Sgt. Douglas Barton, 40, of San Antonio said he got tired of waiting and decided to end his 20-year Army career. ``I'm not going to sit in the desert for no reason. Time for me to go,'' he said as he waited for a flight home.
AP900419-0040 	X	``If you look up history, this kind of coincidence happens many times. I don't think it is really statistically significant.'' _ Seismologist Hiroo Kanamori of the California Institute of Technology on a barrage of earthquakes during a two-day period this week in California, Indiana and Asia.
AP880301-0129 	X	Gov. Evan Mecham should be removed from office for obstructing an investigation of an alleged death threat, senators were told today during opening arguments of the first-term Republican's impeachment trial. But a defense attonrey for Mecham told senators in an impassioned statement that Mecham was the victim of a ``mutiny'' by the state attorney general and director of the state Department of Public Safety. Prosecutor William French said the man accused of making the alleged threat, former state official Lee Watkins, had claimed that jobs in the Mecham administration ``relate to the amount of money that you were able to bring into the campaign.'' French said the evidence was ``overwhelming'' that Mecham violated criminal laws and his oath of office and committed malfeasance in office, ``any one of which call for impeachment.'' However, defense attorney Fred Craft told senators in his opening statement that Mecham broke no laws and was acting within his authority. ``What has this man done?'' Craft said. ``There's something wrong in this state when you can depose the constitutionally elected officer of the state and throw the book at him ... based upon evidence that's being presented by people who have a stake in the outcome to have him ousted.'' Craft said the accusations resulted from a ``mutiny'' by Attorney General Bob Corbin and DPS Director Ralph Milstead. The DPS includes the Highway Patrol and investigative personnel. Craft also said he would present testimony that would cast dubt on Milstead's integrity. Mecham, who also faces a March 22 criminal trial and a May 17 recall election, did not appear at the Senate on the second day of his impeachment trial. The impeachment counts against Mecham include an allegation that he ordered Milstead not to cooperate with the attorney general's probe of an alleged death threat by Watkins, then the state prison construction chief. ``There was an obstruction with regard to an ongoing investigation that was being conducted by the attorney general's office,'' French said. Watkins has denied making a threat against Donna Carlson, a former top Mecham aide who testified before the state grand jury on Mecham's failure to report a $350,000 campaign loan. DPS Officer Frank Martinez, a former member of Mecham's security detail who was called as the trial's first witness, testified this morning that Mecham administration official Peggy Griffith told him about a conversation she had with Watkins. Ms. Griffith said Watkins had told her that if Ms. Carlson ``did not keep her mouth shut, she could wind up taking a long boat ride ... and I know the right people who can help me,'' Martinez testified. Martinez said that he met with Milstead, other DPS officers, Corbin and several assistant attorneys general several days later and that Milstead told of a conversation he had with Mecham. Martinez said Milstead told the group that Mecham ``stated he didn't want him helping the attorney general.'' ``The overall mood was just amazement,'' Martinez testified. Craft said Milstead and other officials did not fully advise Mecham about the alleged threat, adding that Milstead ``was a feckless employee of this state and he did not serve that governor well.'' French said Watkins complained about the job he was given by Mecham and told Corrections Director Sam Lewis, ``If they don't treat me right I can bring Mecham's administration down.'' French warned the Senate to ``keep your eye on the ball'' and not be distracted by any attacks on witnesses in the case. ``Know that this is being done because there is no defense,'' French said. The opening arguments today dealt only with the alleged threat. Arguments will precede discussion of the other allegations against Mecham as they are reached during the trial. On the trial's opening day Monday, the Senate strongly rejected efforts to dismiss impeachment charges against Mecham. Also, the Arizona Supreme Court was expected to rule today on a defense claim that the impeachment trial, the first of a U.S. governor in 59 years, should be delayed until after Mecham's March 22 criminal trial on charges of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan. The high court last week refused to grant a temporary delay, and Mecham said he planned to take the issue to federal court if necessary. Senate President Carl Kunasek, a Republican, said ``it was the first-day jitters for everyone'' in the impeachment trial's opening day Monday. ``It crosses everybody's mind _ the importance to do justice to the governor and the state,'' said Senate Majority Leader Bob Usdane, also a Republican. ``It's a large burden and we take it seriously.'' Senators refused to dismiss the 23 articles of impeachment against Mecham, whose attorney, Jerris Leonard, entered an innocent plea on his behalf. On 11 separate motions, the largest number of the 29 senators voting for dismissal was seven. Several senators said the vote should not be considered an indication that Mecham is likely to be convicted, saying they want to hear the evidence first. However, Sen. Jeff Hill, a Republican who has strongly backed Mecham, said the governor's conviction was virtually a foregone conclusion. ``I think that it's not likely that he's going to prevail,'' he said. If convicted by the Senate, Mecham would be removed from office and could be permanently barred from holding elective office in Arizona. Mecham, 63, won election in a three-way race after five tries. He has repeatedly denied wrongdoing and insisted he will survive both trials and a May 17 recall election and return to the office he gave up to acting Gov. Rose Mofford, a Democrat, when he was impeached by the House on Feb. 5.
AP880905-0140 	X	Demonstrators in wheelchairs blocked Greyhound terminals in several U.S. cities Monday claiming buses are inaccessible to disabled riders, and several landed in jail when they refused police orders to move. In some cases, demonstrators organized by American Disabled for Accessible Public Transportation, or ADAPT, blocked Labor Day travelers' entry to buses, police said. ``This is a very busy day for us,'' said George Gravley, a spokesman for Dallas-based Greyhound Lines Inc. ``It's a holiday weekend. People are going home and thousands of people are being inconvenienced because buses are being delayed.'' Five protesters in wheelchairs and one blind demonstrator were arrested in Dallas and taken to jail, said police Sgt. K. Walters. A jailer said $213 bond each was set, but she did not know how many were jailed. Arrests also occurred in Louisville, Ky., and Denver, and an organizer said the protests occurred in a dozen cities. Joe Carley, a demonstrator at the Dallas terminal, said society has ``spent thousands of dollars keeping us alive and they say, `We have spent this money to keep you alive we're not going to spend any money to see that you can live.' And accessibility is living.'' Protesters want Greyhound to install lifts on buses to make them more accessible to the handicapped. ``We're asking them to sign an agreement that any new bus built will be accessible,'' said the Rev. Wade Blank, an ADAPT spokesman in Denver. Greyhound officials met with leaders of the Denver-based ADAPT in August. ``We went through all of this in Denver,'' Gravley said. ``We thought we responded in a forthright way to issues they raised. We are disappointed obviously that the demonstrations continued.'' In Denver, 10 people, including eight in wheelchairs, were cited for disturbing the peace. The protest shifted to the Denver City Jail after police officers booked the two able-bodied people, but released those in wheelchairs, said Blank. Two hours later, they too were released, and a police officer at the scene told the protesters they had been booked due to a misunderstanding. In Louisville, Ky., a protest involving 25 people resulted in the arrest of eight demonstrators, six in wheelchairs. The eight were charged with failure to disperse and obstruction of a highway and released on their own recognizance. Blank said protests also were scheduled Monday in Atlanta, Savannah, Ga., Salt Lake City, Utah, Phoenix, San Francisco and Los Angeles. Another demonstration was set for Tuesday at the Greyhound terminal in Chicago, he said. Gravley said a Greyhound subsidiary has applied for a grant to use toward designing an exprimental bus that would be accessible to the disabled. He said the company has proposed enlisiting the help of an advisory group that would include ADAPT members, the Texas Commission for The Handicapped, and a retired people's group. Greyhound operates Helping Hands, a program that provides a free ticket for disabled people who are unable to travel by themselves. But to avoid fraudulent use of the program, the bus carrier requires users to provide proof of their disability, Gravley said. ``This handicapped organization feels that's demeaning and they ought to be the judge of whether they travel alone,'' Gravley said. ADAPT also objects to Greyhound's requirements that non-motorized wheelchairs be stored in baggage compartments and battery-operated wheelchairs be kept off buses. Greyhound cites concerns about battery acid leaking.
AP880629-0315 	X	The dollar rose Wednesday in Europe as players became increasingly convinced that the Group of Seven countries, particularly the United States and Japan, are willing to tolerate a higher U.S. currency. Gold responded by sliding nearly $10 an ounce in heavy selling in Europe, reaching its lowest levels since early March. ``The market has a feeling that G-7 doesn't mind the dollar going higher,'' said a trader at a British bank, adding that two central banks, the Deutsche Bundesbank and the Swiss National Bank, engaged in only limited intervention Wednesday. Dealers said they saw no buying by other major central banks. The Group of Seven major industrialized nations is made up of the United States, Japan, West Germany, France, Britain, Italy and Canada. Jim O'Neill, an economist at Swiss Bank Investment Bank in London, said the dollar continued to rise because the U.S. Federal Reserve and the Bank of Japan did not play a major role in Tuesday's heavy concerted intervention. Many traders concluded the Fed and the Japanese central bank have given their consent to a higher dollar. In London, it cost $1.7060 to buy one pound, cheaper than $1.7200 late Tuesday. Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Tuesday's rates, included: 1.8290 West German marks, up from 1.8070; 1.5155 Swiss francs, up from 1.4960; 6.1635 French francs, up from 6.0885; 2.0545 Dutch guilders, up from 2.0210; 1,350.75 Italian lire, up from 1,337.00; and 1.2173 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2105. In earlier Tokyo trading, the dollar broke the 133-yen level for the first time in nearly seven months before falling back to close at 132.40 yen, up 1.45 yen from Tuesday. In London, it topped 133 yen again and was quoted at 133.70 yen. Dealers said the dollar's strength in the face of central bank intervention was the main factor behind gold's slide. They also cited softness in other commodities prices. ``Whenever the market creates a wave like this, you have speculators fueling the fire and then there is investor follow-through on the downside.'' said one bullion dealer in Zurich. The slide began in New York on Tuesday, and then was exacerbated by heavy selling in Europe. Gold fell in London to a late bid price of $433.30 a troy ounce, compared with late Tuesday's $443.20. In Zurich, gold closed at a bid $433.50 compared with $443.20 late Tuesday. Earlier, in Hong Kong, gold fell $6.26 to close at a bid $440.04 a troy ounce. Silver bullion prices fell on the London market. The metal traded at a late bid price of $6.66 a troy ounce, compared with Tuesday's $6.92.
AP900124-0007 	X	Pronunciations of the names of some leading Yugoslav politicans: Slobodan Milosevic (Sloh-BOH-don Me-LOSH-veech), Serbian president. Milan Kucan (ME-lahn KOO-chahn), prominent Slovenian Communist leader. Stefan Korosec (Shte-FAN COUR-oh-shetz), Secretary of Yugoslav Communist Party. Ivica Racan (EE-vee-tzah RAH'-chahn), Croatian Communist Party leader. Milan Pancevsky (ME-lahn pahn-CHAF-ski), Federal Communist Party leader. Ante Markovic (AHN-teh mark-oh-VITCH), premier Zivko Pregl (ZHEEV-koh PREH-gl), deputy premier Adm. Petar Simic (PEH-tar SHEE-mitch), Communist leader in military.
AP880512-0301 	X	Prices on the London Stock Exchange rose Thursday as players crept back into the market to pick up marked-down shares after Wednesday's rout. The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-stock index was up 15.5 points, or 0.9 percent, at 1,772.3 at the close. On Wednesday, the index fell 35.8 points. Trading volume was a modest 340.8 million shares, compared with Wednesday's 575.5 million shares. Traders said the market was attempting to consolidate after Wednesday's fall. The positive showing in Tokyo and Wall Street's better opening Thursday also supported London equity prices, dealers said. ``People have discounted Wednesday's performance because they realize it was overdone,'' one equity salesman said. In addition, the market was heartened by some favorable corporate earnings reports, dealers said.
AP900706-0194 	X	Sen. Gordon Humphrey, a steadfast foe of legalized abortion, said Friday he has softened his stand for the tactical reason of finally getting an updated abortion law passed in New Hampshire. The conservative Republican, who is running for a state Senate seat even though he retires in January from the U.S. Senate after two terms, said he has long supported abortion only to save the woman's life, but now would support exceptions for rape and incest victims. In a telephone interview from his Chichester home, Humphrey said he's easing his stance ``because that's probably the only way that we can get a bill passed and signed into law that would address the 95 percent of abortions that have nothing to do with rape, incest or the life of the mother.'' Earlier this year, Gov. Judd Gregg vetoed a bill that would have made abortion legal until the fetus could live outside the womb. Last year, Gregg vetoed a bill to repeal the state's existing anti-abortion laws, which date from the mid-1800s. Humphrey faces state Rep. Jack Sherburne in the Sept. 11 Republican primary. Sherburne favors abortion rights, as does the incumbent, Republican William Johnson, who is running for Congress. Humphrey said his beliefs haven't changed and that he hopes the public eventually will agree with him that ``each abortion kills a human being, and a human being is a human being irrespective of his circumstances of conception.'' Asked if he would revert to opposing exceptions for rape and incest if the political climate were favorable, Humphrey said, ``That would be my preference. But I don't expect to see that day.'' He said he had not discussed his new position with anti-abortion supporters, but expects some criticism. Warren Aldrich, legislative director for New Hampshire For L.I.F.E., would not comment directly on Humphrey's change, but said his group ``would not take part in sponsoring or originating a bill that permits the taking of an unborn human life because of the circumstances of its conception.'' ``Rape and incest are tragic assaults on a woman's life, but we do not believe that abortion is in any way therapeutic for the woman,'' he said. Peg Dobbie, state director of the National Abortion Rights Action League, was surprised by Humphrey's new stance. ``He seems like the guy who's above it, the maverick who stands up for his convictions no matter what,'' she said. Even with the modifications, Humphrey's stance ``is a very extreme anti-abortion position,'' Dobbie said.
AP901227-0018 	X	Luxembourg takes over the European Community's presidency on Tuesday, with war looming in the Persian Gulf, world trade talks in disarray and Europe in full transformation. The Grand Duchy, a tiny speck on the map with only about 0.1 percent of the population in the 12-nation community, has a good track record in handling the rotating six-month EC presidencies. Jacques Santer, prime minister of the 378,400 Luxembourgers, is convinced the mouse will roar again when his country takes over the community's presidency from Italy as 1991 begins. ``During all of our presidencies we always came up with results,'' Santer said in a recent interview. Five years ago, the Luxembourg presidency paved the way for the Single European Act, an updated constitution that pushes the trade bloc toward creating a truly unified market after 1992. This time around, new initiatives to create economic, monetary and political union by the turn of the century have been thrust into Santer's lap. The Christian Democrat plans to act as a mediator between the EC's powerhouses - Germany, France and Britain - to finalize the blueprint for European unity. ``Because we are so small, the others do not suspect us of having ulterior self-serving motives,'' he said. Shoehorned between Germany, France and Belgium, Luxembourg occupies a key crossroads on the continent, straddling Europe's main cultures - the Romanic and Germanic. It is also well-connected with both the rich north and poor south in the community. The Persian Gulf crisis might prove the first test of Luxembourg's mettle. The EC has said it would not hold talks with Iraqi Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz unless the United States first reaches agreement with Iraq on exchanging foreign ministers' visits. If the EC agrees to talk with Iraq, that task would fall to Luxembourg's Foreign Minister Jacques Poos. During Luxembourg's six months, a lot of energy will be spent on two conferences - one on economic and monetary union, the other on political union -to pave the way for a more unified Europe. Disarray reigns on how fast monetary union should be achieved, Santer said. He said calls for an independent EC defense organization are not realistic and it remains ``essential that we keep a partnership with the United States'' within NATO - the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. The partnership with Washington has been strained in global trade, where the EC has resisted U.S. proposals that it reduce price supports and subsidies for farmers. The agricultural dispute blocked an agreement in world trade talks held in Brussels, Belgium earlier this month. The talks are to resume in Geneva next month. Santer, stressing the progress that has been made in the other 14 sectors covered by the trade talks, said farming should not block an overall accord. He argued in favor of a final deal that, if need be, excludes agriculture.
AP901018-0142 	X	Charities outside of United Way campaigns are gaining an increasing share of the millions of dollars that American workers give through workplace campaigns, a report said Thursday. The report was issued by the National Committee for Responsive Philanthropy, which has campaigned for giving workers access to newer and smaller charities that are not usually part of United Way campaigns. The committee, representing more than 300 fund-raising organizations, was established in 1976 to monitor developments in philanthropy. Alternative organizations are getting 10.1 percent of the money raised in workplace campaigns, the report said. Ten years ago, it said, alternative groups got 3.5 percent of the total. Among the alternative organizations are some health agencies such as the Muscular Dystrophy Association; international agencies such as CARE and Oxfam America; arts funds; the United Negro College Fund; and agencies which raise money for social action causes and women's and environmental groups. All told, United Way campaigns are expected to raise $3.2 billion in contributions this year, two-thirds of it through payroll deductions and other employee contribution programs. Organizations not under the United Way umbrella are expected to raise $205 million from employee contribution programs. ``We have already witnessed the dismantlement of the United Way's monopoly of workplace fund raising,'' said Robert Bothwell, executive director of NCRP. ``Our figures indicate that the 1990s will produce a 20 to 25 percent market share for alternatives to United Ways.'' Clark LaMendola, senior vice president of the United Way of America said the report failed to make clear that United Way acts as the campaign manager for raising most of the money collected by the alternative organizations. ``We get the volunteers together, we raise the money, we print the pledge cards, we count the money and we make sure the organizations get it,'' he said. He said the report gives the erroneous impression ``that these funds are somehow raised independently.'' Two-thirds of the $205 million expected to be raised this year on behalf of the alternative organizations will be solicited by campaigns managed by United Way, LaMendola said. The NCRP report said alternative charities made their most significant gain in the huge Combined Federal Campaign, which collects contributions from federal employees. CFC is the world's largest workplace charity drive. It solicits contributions from almost five million workers. In 1987, it collected $187 million. In 1980, United Way organizations got 71 percent of all money collected by the federal drive. By 1989, their share had fallen to 37 percent, the report said. ``CFC donors have sent out a message that has been picked up by workplace giving campaign decision makers across the country, in both the public and private sectors,'' said Don Sodo, who champions broader workplace fund drives. ``They have demonstrated that they are interested in a wide variety of charities, including those that provide services not within the somewhat limited United Way umbrella.'' Sodo is executive director of National-United Services Agencies, which represents 87 widely divergent organizations, including the NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund, National Organization for Women Legal Education and Defense Fund, Phyllis Schlafly's Eagle Forum, Ralph Nader's Public Citizen and the National Right to Life Educational Trust. The NCRP fought successfully in court and in Congress during the 1980s to broaden CFC drives to include alternative charities, including some lobbying and advocacy groups. The federal campaign now collects for United Way, seven other national federations, 220 unaffiliated agencies and thousands of local unaffiliated charities and federations, the report said.
AP900411-0122 	X	Sixty guests gathered at the French ambassador's home Wednesday to pay homage to the Marquis de Lafayette, hero of the American Revolution, over a candlelight dinner featuring dishes from the menu at Lafayette's wedding feast in 1774. A crier in powdered wig and knee britches announced each guest and a trio of costumed chamber musicians played Mozart and other 18th century favorites for the black-tie dinner given by Le Cordon Bleu, the famed Paris cooking school. Those lucky enough to receive invitations to one of the most exclusive social events of Washington's spring season dined on a jelly of oysters in caviar cream sauce, filet of sole, baby squab served in silver cups and a slab of roast venison on a spit which was carried into the dining room on the shoulders of two chefs. Goblets under the Baccarat crystal candelabra, which were decorated with cascades of pink roses, tulips and spring flowers, were filled with six fine French wines and champagne. Dessert was chocolate-covered pineapple ice cream, served in a pineapple shell held by three sculpted chocolate hands. The palate freshener for the seven-course dinner was a sorbet laced with cognac from the 900-acre Cointreau estate in France. ``The guests were pleased to receive invitations, but some people were very displeased they were not coming,'' said Andre Cointreau, a descendant of the French liqueur producers and president of Le Cordon Bleu. ``We were sorry we could not accommodate everyone.'' Besides French Ambassador Jacques Andreani, the guest list included leading Washington journalists and food writers, former U.N. Ambassador Jeane Kirkpatrick, Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter and Katharine Graham, chairman of the Washington Post Co. Patrick Martin, 32, a rising star among classical French chefs and a master teacher at Le Cordon Bleu, arrived 10 days ago to begin preparing the dinner. He was assisted by four chefs who labored in the white-tiled basement kitchen of the ambassador's residence in northwest Washington. Cointreau said the dinner Wednesday night included authentic recreations of several foods from the staggering array of 200 dishes served in 30 courses at Lafayette's wedding feast exactly 216 years ago. Lafayette, then just 16, married Adrienne de Noailles, a daughter of one of the wealthiest and most influential families in France, in a Paris ceremony that took place shortly before Lafayette became a captain in the French cavalry. Three years later, Lafayette sailed to America and joined the Revolutionary War as an honorary major general under the command of his close friend, George Washington. He was credited with the defensive military maneuvers that resulted in the British surrender at Yorktown in 1781. Cointreau said the dinner was conceived five years ago as an expression of gratitude to American oil magnate John Moffat, who early in this century bought and restored the crumbling Chavagnal-Lafayette castle in the Auvergne region where Lafayette was born. Moffat housed several hundred French orphans from World War I at the castle, which is now held by trustees of the nonprofit Lafayette Memorial. ``The dinner is our way of saying thank you to America, and the best way to say thank you is to have good people sitting down together at a very good dinner,'' Cointreau said.
AP880310-0058 	X	A man bent on revenge after being convicted of reckless driving and weapons violations died in a courtroom gunfight after threatening to kill his prosecutor and critically wounding a bailiff, authorities said. Jeremey Sigmond, 35, a decertified chiropractor from Sepulveda, returned Wednesday to Los Angeles Municipal Court where he was convicted the day before, and accosted his prosecutor, Jessica Perrin Silvers, 49, threatening to kill her. ``He's just, in layman's terms, violently crazy, and I knew it,'' the prosecutor said. ``So when I heard him talking in his delusional voice and saying I should come with him I just thought there's no way I'm going to do that.'' A bailiff drew a gun on Sigmond. Sigmond threatened to shoot Ms. Silvers and the bailiff dropped the weapon. But Ms. Silvers broke away and Deputy Marshal Cliff Wofford burst into the room and shot Sigmond. Wofford, 30, of Palmdale, was wounded in the abdomen in the gunbattle and was in critical condition after surgery to repair damage to his liver, said Betty Neilson, spokeswoman for St. Joseph's Medical Center in Burbank. Police searched Sigmond's suburban home Wednesday for firearms or explosives, but found only empty gun vaults. A neighbor, Maurice Netter, said Sigmond had told him he was part of a federal witness protection program and living under an assumed name. Sigmond was convicted Tuesday of four misdemeanors _ reckless driving, evading police, carrying a loaded weapon and carrying a concealed weapon _ stemming from an Oct. 22 high-speed chase. He testified at his trial that he thought he was being chased by the Mafia instead of the California Highway Patrol. He claimed the Mafia was harassing him in retaliation for a lawsuit he filed against the Board of Chiropractors, alleging price-fixing and restraint of trade. He had been appealing the revocation of his state license to practice as a chiropractor. When arrested, Sigmond was wearing two bullet-proof vests and a crash helmet and carrying a loaded .38-caliber revolver. He was wearing a bullet-proof vest Wednesday, said police Lt. Charles Massey. Sigmond's attorney, Norman Edell, described his client as an Air Force veteran who held a second-degree black belt in karate and was a collector of guns, most of which he recently had sold. ``He was very distraught because the case meant a lot to him. He didn't take it passively but there was no indication of this,'' he said. At his sentencing, which was scheduled for May, Sigmond could have been ordered imprisoned up to 18 months. The courthouse is in the San Fernando Valley community of Van Nuys, about 15 miles northwest of downtown Los Angeles.
AP900711-0179 	X	The Mohawk Indians who live on the border between the United States and Canada are again in conflict with the authorities. Here is a look at their relations with the governments on both sides of the border in recent years. 1979 _ 20 ``traditionalists'' Mohawks were arrested after a handful of Franklin County deputies were held hostage over the cutting down of trees by tribal Mohawks who elect the tribe's leaders. 1980 _ New York State sends 70 heavily armed policemen onto the reservation to head off a confrontation between tribal Mohawks and traditionalist Mohawks. June 1989 _ State police complete a two-day raid on the St. Regis Mohawk Reservation, arresting four people for illegal gambling and confiscating more than 200 gambling machines. July 1989 _ 300 FBI agents and state troopers raid gambling casinos on the St. Regis Mohawk Reservation, arresting 12 Mohawk Indians on gambling charges. Following the raid, there is a 10-day standoff between state and federal authorities and the Warriors Society, a self-appointed Mohawk security force. August 1989 _ Shots are fired at a one of the gambling casinos on the St. Regis Reservation in the latest round of violence stemming from gambling on the Reservation. November 1989 _ Offices of a weekly pro-gambling newspaper on the St. Regis Mohawk Reservation are hit by gunfire in further violence over illegal gambling casinos. March 1990 _ A doctor aboard a Vermont National Guard helicopter, on a medical mission, was struck by a bullet fired from a rifle as the helicopter flew over the Ganienkeh Mohawk Territory. Three bullets penetrated the helicopter. July 11 _ Mohawk Indians wearing warpaint fire on Canadian police, killing one officer in a dispute over land for a golf course.
AP900508-0112 	X	Chancellor Helmut Kohl on Tuesday firmly rejected Moscow's suggestion that settling the military complexities of a united Germany could be delayed until after the countries are merged. ``It would be a fatal development if the external and internal conditions of German unity were not completely clear when the day of German unity comes,'' Kohl told reporters. The chancellor was referring to a suggestion by Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze that formal German unity could occur before ``external'' aspects of the merger are cleared up. Such ``external'' aspects would include those issues with international implications, such as the military stance of a united Germany. West Germany currently belongs to NATO, while East Germany is a member of the Soviet-led Warsaw Pact. The Soviets oppose a united Germany in NATO. During reunification talks Saturday in Bonn, Shevardnadze also suggested a ``transition period'' during which the four wartime allies would retain postwar rights, even after German unity. The United States, the Soviet Union, France and Britain jointly control many matters in the former German capital of Berlin. They also have special rights outside Berlin, many involving the status of the troops they maintain in what once were their postwar military occupation zones. Shevardnadze's remarks initially triggered jubilation among some West German politicians, who sensed the pace of unification was picking up. But by Tuesday that had changed to concern about delaying settlement of important issues related to German unification. There had even been talk among some politicians of canceling West Germany's Dec. 2 national election in favor of elections for a united Germany's parliament. But Kohl said Tuesday ``without question'' the Dec. 2 elections will still occur. Vernon A. Walters, the U.S. ambassador to West Germany, said Tuesday that Washington supports a united Germany with unrestricted sovereignty and without special rights for any of the World War II allied victors. ``A united Germany should have full control over its entire state territory, without any sort of new discriminating limitations of German sovereignty,'' Walters told a Frankfurt meeting of West German newspaper and broadcast susbscribers to The Associated Press. While the United States has promised it won't stand in the way of full sovereignty for a united Germany, it has also made clear it wants a merged Germany to be part of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Kohl has also vowed that a united Germany will be a NATO member. Moscow has suggested as a compromise that a united Germany belong to both NATO and the Warsaw Pact until still-undefined European ``security structures'' are created. Both Washington and Bonn have said they are prepared to allow Soviet troops to remain on what is now East German territory for an interim period, but both have rejected a dual-bloc membership. East Germany also reacted negatively to Shevardnadze's weekend proposals. Government officials in East Berlin are ``skeptical'' of delaying a settlement on the international issues involved in unification, said the East German news agency ADN. Kohl said his government is hoping that the six-nation talks on unification, which began Saturday, will conclude before the end of this fall. He said the international aspects of German unification will likely be discussed at the U.S.-Soviet summit at the end of this month, and at a special NATO summit in London in July.
AP900225-0066 	X	To hear some people tell it, there is money to burn in this trendy seaside community, but it still isn't every day that a bank tosses $42,500 into the trash. ``We're sort of embarrassed,'' Great American Bank spokesman Brian Luscomb said Friday, a day after the windfall was recovered from a municipal trash truck that had hauled it away. ``It was an accident and we're really not commenting much beyond that,'' said Luscomb, who added that a bank employee whose name wasn't released put the money in the wrong container. When the garbage truck got to the dump, officials there had been warned about the missing cash, and they had the driver take his load to a city yard instead. The garbage was dumped there and municipal employees dug through the trash until they found the cash. The city's trash collectors must try to track down the owners of expensive items but can keep lesser ones, said General Services Director David Niederhaus.
AP880920-0282 	X	A former programmer has been convicted of planting a computer ``virus'' in his employer's system that wiped out 168,000 records and was activated like a time bomb, doing its damage two days after he was fired. Tarrant County Assistant District Attorney Davis McCown said he believes he is the first prosecutor in the country to have someone convicted for destroying computer records using a ``virus.'' ``We've had people stealing through computers, but not this type of case,'' McCown said. ``The basis for this offense is deletion.'' ``It's very rare that the people who spread the viruses are caught,'' said John McAfee, chairman of the Computer Virus Industry Association in Santa Clara, Calif., which helps educate the public about viruses and find ways to fight them. ``This is absolutely the first time'' for a conviction, McAfee said. ``In the past, prosecutors have stayed away from this kind of case because they're too hard to prove,'' McCown said Tuesday. ``They have also been reluctant because the victim doesn't want to let anyone know there has been a breach of security.'' Donald Gene Burleson, 40, was convicted Monday of charges of harmful access to a computer, a third-degree felony that carries up to 10 years in prison and up to $5,000 in fines. A key to the case was the fact that State District Judge John Bradshaw allowed the computer program that deleted the files to be introduced as evidence, McCown said. It would have been difficult to get a conviction otherwise, he said. The District Court jury deliberated six hours before bringing back the first conviction under the state's 3-year-old computer sabotage law. Burleson planted the virus in revenge for his firing from an insurance company, McCown said. Jurors were told during a technical and sometimes-complicated three-week trial that Burleson planted a rogue program in the computer system used to store records at USPA and IRA Co., a Fort Worth-based insurance and brokerage firm. A virus is a computer program, often hidden in apparently normal computer software, that instructs the computer to change or destroy information at a given time or after a certain sequence of commands. The virus, McCown said, was activated Sept. 21, 1985, two days after Burleson was fired as a computer programmer, because of alleged personality conflicts with other employees. ``There were a series of programs built into the system as early as Labor Day (1985),'' McCown said. ``Once he got fired, those programs went off.'' The virus was discovered two days later, after it had eliminated 168,000 payroll records, holding up company paychecks for more than a month. The virus could have caused hundreds of thousands of dollars in damage to the system had it continued, McCown said. The defense argued during trial that Burleson was set up by someone using his terminal and code. Burleson's attorneys tried to prove he was vacationing in another part of the state with his son on the dates in early September when the rogue programs were entered into the system. But prosecutors presented records showing that Burleson was at work and his son at school on those dates. Defense lawyer Jack Beech maintained Burleson is innocent and but said his client might not have enough money to appeal. Besides, Beech said, Burleson is likely to get the minimum sentence of two years' probation. McCown said he is hoping for a stiffer sentence. Bradshaw on Tuesday ordered a presentence investigation and set sentencing Oct. 21. Burleson already has lost a civil case waged against him by USPA in connection with the incident. The jury in that case ordered him to pay $12,000 to his former employers. McAfee said his organization had documented about 250,000 cases of sabotage by computer virus.
AP881205-0250 	X	Prime Minister Brian Mulroney today opened the most ambitious trade negotiations ever undertaken, urging officials of 90 nations to compromise to resolve trade differences. In an apparent reference to a clash between the United States and its allies on farm subsidies, Mulroney exhorted the delegates to ``be motivated by a spirit of honorable compromise.'' Mulroney said farmers around the world ``are looking for results in Montreal. They can no longer survive on a diet of promises.'' The round of trade negotiations is designed to liberalize and broaden the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, an international trade-policing treaty signed in 1947. GATT now has 96 members, and 90 trade ministers were at today's meeting. The U.S. delegation has come under strong criticism from Japan, Australia and the European Community over its demand to completely eliminate government supports for farmers. The 12-nation European Community is only willing to reduce them, terming the U.S. position unrealistic. Mulroney urged the negotiators to ``be animated by a spirit of realism,'' echoing similar weekend calls to the United States in preparatory consultations for the mid-term review of the four-year Uruguay Round of trade talks. The United States was further isolated by a tentative accord reached between the Europeans and developing nations that would remove or reduce tariffs on the export of tropical products to the industrialized world. An EC spokeswoman said the United States did not yet support the agreement, which would affect $70 billion in internaional trade of such products as jute, bananas and coffee. Michael Duffy, Australia's Minister of Trade Negotiations, told reporters Sunday that blame for U.S.-European impasse over trade barriers should be shared by the two parties. But he and other officials looked to the Americans to make the first move. Duffy warned that if neither side compromises during the three-day talks, ``it will sour the rest of the round,'' which ends in 1990. The dispute over agricultural subsidies has clouded prospects for progress on other urgent trade problems, such as the inclusion of the booming services trade in the 40-year-old GATT pact and the adoption of safeguards for copyrights and patents. ``It's hard to see how there can be progress in other areas without progress in agriculture,'' said John Crosbie, Canada's Minister for International Trade. The United States took a conciliatory stand but insisted it would stick to its main objective. Chief agriculture negotiator Dan Amstutz noted the United States had moved away from setting a 2000 deadline for elimination of subsidies and agreed to emergency government food stockpiles as long as they are bought on the open market. ``We're flexible,'' he said, but ``we'd rather not have any agreement than a bad one.'' The U.S. delegation also appeared to hold out the possibility it would relent on its rejection of a proposal lifting barriers on the export of tropical products, such as bananas and coconuts, by developing nations. U.S. trade negotiator Alan Holmer warned that failure by the GATT round could create ``uncertainties'' in Congress and within the incoming administration of George Bush. He did not elaborate. But Sen. Patrick Leahy of Vermont, the Democratic chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, said failure on the farm support issue would result in an ``export-oriented'' farm bill. Congress is scheduled to draft a farm bill next year and Leahy indicated it would include supports for farmers so they can compete effectively against farmers whose governments also subsidize exports. The United States projects that its 1989 farm supports will amount to $13 billion _ down from the $27 million of 1987 but still a heavy burden on the deficit-ridden budget. U.S. officials say Europeans could save about $200 billion every year if they stopped their farm supports. But the EC, under the influence of powerful farm lobbies, says eliminating supports is not a viable option.
AP901129-0140 	X	The government Thursday approved a U.S.-manufactured drug for treating a variety of African Sleeping Sickness, a disease that afflicts 25,000 people annually. The drug, Ornidyl, was cleared for use by the Food and Drug Administration and will be available by the end of the year in the sub-Saharan region of Africa, the World Health Organization said in a news release. This is the first approval of the drug in any country. An estimated 50 million people in 36 countries are at risk of contracting the disease, caused by parasites transmitted by tsetse flies. There are usually fewer than 10 cases of the disease per year in the United States, but the drug each year could save 3,000 people infected with the West African variety of the sickness, the World Health Organization said. Ornidyl is known as a ``resurrection drug'' because it can cure patients who have fallen into comas from the disease, said WHO's Dr. Tore Godal. Given intravenously, Ornidyl inhibits the growth of theparasite. The drug manufactured by Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals of Cincinnati, Ohio. Other drugs used against sleeping sickness aren't effective in the late stages, when the disease reaches the central nervous system. The new drug does have a potential for anemia and, on occasion, dangerous decreases in the numbers of white blood cells and platelets in the blood, the FDA said. A warning label says blood cell count monitoring should be done twice a week.
AP881106-0029 	X	Education Secretary Lauro Cavazos is seeking the advice of thousands of lenders, colleges and universities, and public officials on how to hold down the escalating default rate on student loans. The Education Department says taxpayers spent $1.5 billion to cover defaults on the guaranteed student loan program in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, almost 43 percent of the program's entire cost. The figure represents a 200 percent increase over the past five years in what is now known as the Stafford loan program, the department said. ``We want the advice of all parties _ the Congress, the public, schools, lenders, guarantee agencies and borrowers,'' Cavazos said in a statement. ``A lot has already been done, but clearly, additional action is necessary.'' The program has loaned about $40 billion since it began. Of the current $12 billion in outstanding loans, about $5 billion is overdue, the department said. Charles Kolb, acting deputy undersecretary for planning, budget and evaluation, said Cavazos has sent letters appealing for advice to more than 7,000 participating colleges and universities, 13,000 lenders, 54 agencies that guarantee student loans, 50 governors, and members of Congress. Cavazos, who was president of Texas Tech University until taking over as education secretary in September, is also accepting suggestions from students. He is especially concerned about those who defaulted on their loans because they were unable to earn a living after attending unscrupulous trade or other schools that award a certificate but do not provide necessary job skills. Kolb said some schools have 100 percent default rates, suggesting they may not be providing the kind of education necessary for students to hold a job and earn enough money to repay their loans. ``There are a lot of scams going on here,'' Kolb said. A school must be accredited to qualify students for guaranteed student loans, but Kolb said there are still ``fly by night operations'' that ``don't give students a technical background _ just a paper certificate, no skills, and a debt. ``It's getting just unbelievable. Schools are recruiting right out of welfare lines. They get the students to get federally backed loans and the school gets the money and the kid gets the debt,'' Kolb said. Kolb said former Education Secretary William Bennett had proposed that schools that fail to get their default rate below 20 percent could be cut from the program. Cavazos has extended the comment period on that proposal until the end of February. Kolb said of the 7,300 schools participating in the program, 30 percent have default rates above 20 percent. Cavazos also wants to know to what extent lenders, guarantee agencies and schools should share in the risk and cost of defaults; how communication can be improved among those participating; whether credit reports and co-signers should be required for borrowers with poor credit histories; and how consumer and personal financial counseling can be used most effectively.
AP880425-0322 	X	The head of American Telephone & Telegraph Co.'s computer products division is leaving to rejoin the office equipment giant Ing. C. Olivetti SpA of Italy, AT&T announced Monday. Vittorio Cassoni, who had been head of Olivetti's North American operations before joining AT&T in 1986, will be nominated as managing director of the Italian company, AT&T said in a statement. Robert M. Kavner, AT&T's chief financial officer, was named to replace Cassoni as president of the company's Data Systems Group. The announcement came a week after Robert E. Allen succeeded James E. Olson as AT&T chairman. Olson, who had headed the telecommunications giant since September 1986, died of cancer. Cassoni, 45, joined AT&T after the American company and Olivetti signed a 10-year agreement under which Olivetti began to produce personal computers for both firms. Wall Street analysts said they did not know whether Cassoni's departure was being planned before Olson's death, although Allen said in a statement, ``When we brought Vittorio to AT&T in 1986, it was understood that he would eventually return to Olivetti.'' ``No one knows the answer to that,'' said John Bain, who tracks AT&T for the investment firm Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. ``I'm tempted to say it must have been; they wouldn't undertake something at this high level at a whim.'' Olivetti was disappointed recently by AT&T's refusal to increase its 23 percent stake in the Italian company, but Bain said it was not known if there was a connection between that event and Cassoni's resignation. Analysts also said it was too early to tell what effect the change might have on the Data Systems Group, which is responsible for the development and marketing of AT&T's computer products. ``It is a loss,'' Thomas McKeever, an analyst at First Boston Corp. said of Cassoni's departure. However, McKeever added: ``A good chunk of his work is behind. They have laid the foundation and gotten a dedicated sales force.'' Bain, noting Cassoni's overhaul of AT&T's national marketing system, said, ``If he has gotten things turned about ... this could be viewed as a very positive step.'' But, he said, ``We don't know.'' Under Cassoni, the Data Systems Group agreed to develop a new version of AT&T's Unix computer with Sun Microsystems Inc. AT&T has also agreed to acquire a stake of up to 20 percent in Sun. The Data Systems Group is currently vying for a $4.5 billion contract to supply 20,000 computers to the Air Force and other defense agencies. Digital Equipment Corp. and Wang Laboratories Inc. dropped out of the bidding recently, claiming the deal favored AT&T. Bain said the Data Systems position could be a testing ground for Kavner. ``If he can be a general purpose executive rather than just an accountant, there could be higher things in the cards down the road,'' Bain said. Kavner, 44, joined AT&T in 1984 after 10 years as a partner at Coopers & Lybrand, the accounting and consulting firm.
AP880415-0020 	X	The chairman of the tax-law-writing House Ways and Means Committee has been hit with more than 2,000 letters from angry, befuddled taxpayers complaining about the tax changes he once billed as ``simplification.'' Even Rep. Dan Rostenkowski acknowledges now that the system didn't get much simpler _ he blames last-minute tinkering with the Tax Reform Act of 1986 _ and he says the flood of complaints doesn't surprise him. ``We have been waiting for something like this to happen,'' Rostenkowski, D-Ill., said Thursday. But he said he had expected even more letters to arrive as today's filing deadline approached, perhaps closer to the 10,000 he got after inviting people in a 1985 television address to ``write Rosty'' if they wanted simpler tax laws. ``I must say, it's a dog that didn't bark as far as we're concerned,'' Rostenkowski said. ``There are very few individuals who are writing.'' Committee aides said most of the letters contain copies of an article in Money magazine's April issue lambasting parts of the Tax Reform Act of 1986. ``Fight back,'' the magazine said. ``Send a message to Washington by checking off the boxes by the laws that outrage you, ripping out this article and sending it to the top tax lawmaker: The Hon. Dan Rostenkowski.'' The article criticized nine tax provisions, including a limit on the deductibility of individual retirement accounts, elimination of a deduction for married working couples and a higher threshold for claiming medical deductions. ``There is a lot of frustration out there, and what we're trying to do is address it,'' Landon Y. Jones, Money's managing editor, said of the mail-in campaign. ``People are mad,'' he said. ``They're mad about tax reform. They're mad about how long it took them to fill their forms out. They're mad about losing their IRA deduction.'' Pointing to two huge boxes of mail, aides said Rostenkowski has gotten more than 2,000 letters in a couple weeks _ with no end in sight _ from angry taxpayers. ``In the name of tax reform and simplification, the federal government has once again botched it,'' wrote a couple from Denver, Colo. ``Would you believe there are parts of this country where you can't support a family and live in a decent neighborhood on $50,000 per year?'' said a letter from New Jersey. ``There are, and the situation is worsening.'' From Kankakee, Ill.: ``Being a middle-class American, I feel that once again we are the ones supporting our government, paying for Public Aid persons who could help themselves and carrying the wealthy people right along. When can we expect a change in the attitude of the government?'' The Internal Revenue Service says the changes are not without benefits, bringing lower maximum rates for most taxpayers and an increase in the average refund from $806 last year to $825 this year.
AP900801-0178 	X	The two Germanys on Wednesday settled a fight on how to elect a united Parliament but continued squabbling over whether East Germany has enough money to pull its moribund economy into the capitalist arena. West German government spokesman Hans Klein said the opposition Social Democrats agreed to an election plan allowing small East German parties to run on tickets with larger parties with which they are allied. For example, the German Social Union, which is allied with the larger Christian Democrats, could run on the same ticket. This could improve the small parties' chances of winning representation in Parliament, because each ticket will have to win at least 5 percent of the total vote to be represented in the united Parliament. East German Prime Minister Lothar de Maiziere told reporters late Wednesday that his coalition parties had also approved the plan. The issue at one point threatened to derail the timetable of German unification as parties jockeyed for the most favorable conditions to improve their chances in the all-German election Dec. 2. De Maiziere said he expected the election law to be signed Friday. Meanwhile, East German Finance Minister Walter Romberg said Wednesday his country needs a supplementary budget of $6.25 billion to $7.5 billion plus increased unemployment insurance. More than 250,000 East Germans are unemployed and experts say that number could climb as high as 3 million as companies and factories succumb in the transition to a free market. West Germany has budgeted nearly $15.6 billion this year to cover East Germany's deficit. Manfred Carstens, a top West German Finance Ministry official, criticized East Germany's request for more money as ``unserious and politically dishonest.'' On Tuesday, East German Labor Minister Regine Hildebrandt said ``the country is burning'' and called for billions more in West German marks to help prop up the economy. De Maiziere went to Austria on Tuesday to meet with Chancellor Helmut Kohl at his vacation retreat and discuss the economic crisis. The mass-circulation Bild newspaper reported Thursday that Kohl pressed de Maiziere to find more savings in his budget.
AP900129-0102 	X	Two U.S. Navy warships on Monday sailed through the Bosporus Strait into the Black Sea _ waters dominated by the Soviet fleet, an Istanbul port source said. The vessels were the destroyer Thorn and frigate Capodanno, both attached to the Mediterranean-based 6th Fleet, said the source, speaking on condition of anonymity. The Ocean, a Soviet navy intelligence and support ship, also passed through the Bosporus into the Black Sea together with the U.S. warships, the source said. The U.S. ships will spend four days in the international zones of the Black Sea, the source said. The United States dispatches ships to the area from time to time to reaffirm its commitment to the vital Turkish straits and place a stake in navigational rights in the Black Sea.
AP900302-0138 	X	Hundreds of Moslem separatists dressed in death shrouds tried to march to Srinagar on Friday, a day after government troops shot to death 49 Moslems, but soldiers blocked the rally, police said. The march was to have begun in Sumbal, 15 miles north of Srinagar, said a senior police official who spoke on condition of anonymity. He said at least 1,000 Moslems gathered in the town but were stopped by soldiers before they could leave for Srinagar. Witnesses contacted by telephone said the demonstrators had draped themselves in white burial shrouds to show they were willing to die in the fight for secession. A police officer, speaking on condition of anonymity, said at least 49 people died and between 45 and 100 were injured Thursday in two incidents related to the Moslems' campaign. The government said the officers fired in self-defense. The militants want independence for the Moslem-dominated Kashmir region, a part of India's Jammu-Kashmir state. It is the only Moslem-dominated state in India, where the majority of the population is Hindu. The latest shootings prompted authorities to impose an indefinite curfew at 4 a.m. Friday on Sringar, which is the capital, and six other towns. It prevented Moslems from attending the weekly Friday prayers, which in the past have been flashpoints for trouble. Police said one group of separatists defied the curfew and gathered along Dal Lake, but they were chased away by paramilitary troops. An officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said one of the protesters fell to his death in the cold lake. The victim was not identified. The death brought to 162 the number of people killed in Kashmir since the current round of secession-related violence flared Jan. 20 following a government crackdown on Moslem militants. The violence brought criticism from neighboring Pakistan, a Moslem nation that disputes India's right to govern Kashmir. Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto's government said it condemned the ``brutal Indian response ... to the people of Kashmir, who were asking only for their right of self-determination.'' The Kashmir issue has been a point of contention between Pakistan and India since 1947, following the partition of the old British colonial Asian Subcontinent into two independent nations: mostly Hindu India and overwhelmingly Moslem Pakistan. Kashmir became a subject of dispute because its population was mostly Moslem but its ruler was a Hindu who wanted to join India. A brief war between the two countries left a slice of the valley under Pakistani control and the rest of Kashmir as part of the Indian state of Jammu-Kashmir. A second war in 1965 did not change the situation.
AP880717-0056 	X	More than 400 members of the Rittenhouse clan, some from as far away as West Germany and England, gathered to share family gossip and history over the weekend at the tricentennial celebration of Wilhelm Rittenhausen's arrival in America. People hovered over genealogical charts, running their fingers down the litany of names, searching for descendents of Rittenhausen _ cousins, great-great-uncles, or half-remembered names first heard in childhood stories. Paul Monroe Rittenhouse of State College manned the genealogical tables, helping distant relatives fill in the blanks in their record books, noting marriages, births, deaths. ``We're here to fill in the voids'' of the family's history, he said. Although family members began tracing their ancestors more than 100 years ago, Paul Rittenhouse recently found a ``missing link'' in 19th-century documents from Lancaster County. Those documents added more than 3,000 families to the Rittenhouse lists, bringing the total, in this country, to 50,000 descendents of Rittenhausen. Charlotte Rittinghausen, of Mannheim, West Germany, came to visit friends at the celebration, which ended Sunday. She said her father is interested in the family history, but she wasn't until the American celebration. Ms. Rittinghausen said she is continually learning of family members in her country. Now she has more names to add to her Christmas card list. ``We are spreading all over,'' she said. Rittenhausen settled in Germantown, the country's first permanent German settlement, in 1688. He built a papermill in 1690 on the Monoshone Creek in Philadelphia and became the American colony's first papermaker. His name, itself a derivation of Rittinghausen, was changed erroneously by American clerks, according to Rittenhausen decendant Milton Rubincam of West Hyattsville, Md. Rubincam called the name change ``a peculiarity of Colonial times,'' when American immigrants were confronted by strange languages and names. ``It doesn't matter what your name is. It's fun for everybody to trace their roots,'' said one of two Donald Rittenhouses at the reunion. ``I've been doing research for 10 years, just to see where it goes,'' said the retired salesman and financial officer from Minneapolis.
AP880602-0304 	X	Government prosecutors Thursday arrested two senior officials of Hyundai Engineering and Construction Co. and charged them with paying a group of men to kidnap a labor organizer. The prosecutors said they are trying to determine whether other Hyundai officials were involved in the kidnapping. The organizer was freed after several days when he resigned as an employee of the construction company. Earlier Thursday, about a dozen radical students hurled rocks at the headquarters of the giant Hyundai group in Seoul to protest the kidnapping at the Hyundai subsidiary. No injuries were reported. The arrests and the attack by the students came as labor unrest continued at three other Hyundai plants in southern South Korea. The Hyundai group is one of the largest conglomerates in the nation. In Ulsan, management on Wednesday locked out 20,000 striking workers at Hyundai Motor Co., the nation's largest automaker, and said there was little chance of settling the strike for higher wages. The walkout began Monday. At Hyundai Precision and Industry Co., which makes trains, management and leaders of the 4,000 strikers held two rounds of talks Thursday but failed to end a one-week strike at the company's plants in Ulsan and Changwon. The talks were held one day after strikers freed one of the 11 executives they took hostage on Friday. They were still holding 10 executives on Thursday. Strikers at Hyundai Motors want raises of up to $180 a month, against a company offer of $105. The workers earn an average of $750 after five years. Hyundai Precision on Thursday offered to raise workers' pay $85 a month, but workers stuck to their demand of a $180 increase. They earn $600 a month. ``Punish the masterminds of the kidnapping,'' the students shouted as they hurled rocks at the Hyundai group's main building in Seoul, breaking four windows. The students ran away before police arrived. Several hours after the attack, government prosecutors arrested two Hyundai Engineering officials, executive board member Choi Jae-dong, 47, and manager for general affairs Kang Myung-ku, 42, and charged them with hiring several men to kidnap labor organizer Suh Jung-ui, 34. Suh was kidnapped May 10 by a group of unidentified men as he left a Seoul restaurant where he had met with some officials of the construction company, which is based in Seoul. Suh, who worked at the company's Seoul headquarters, returned home several days later and said he was released after he agreed to write a letter of resignation addressed to the company. Hyundai Engineering denied involvement at the time. Details of the kidnapping emerged this week when some of the alleged kidnappers surrendered to police or were arrested in Seoul and other cities. Their leader told police Hyundai Engineering executives offered him $27,000 to kidnap Suh and persuade him to drop his labor organizing effort.
AP880811-0280 	X	Stock prices drifted lower in an erratic session today, struggling to stabilize after the market's recent recent steep decline. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials, which fell 44.99 points on Tuesday, dropped 2.49 to 2,031.65 by 3 p.m. on Wall Street. Losers outnumbered gainers by about 7 to 4 in the overall tally of New York Stock Exchange-listed issues, with 512 up, 889 down and 537 unchanged. Analysts said the market's drop over the past week had pushed prices down to levels where they attracted some buyers looking for ``bargains.'' But they also said widespread concern persisted over the recent rise in interest rates. Several large banks raised their prime lending rates today from 9.5 percent to 10 percent, a day after the Federal Reserve increased the rate it charges on loans to private financial institutions. The timing of the Federal Reserve's increase in its discount rate from 6 percent to 6.5 percent suggested to many Wall Streeters that the Fed was seriously worried about inflation and was becoming more aggressive in an attempt to stop it from heating up. For one thing, the rate increase came just as the Treasury was beginning a quarterly sale of debt securities. Among actively traded blue chips, International Business Machines fell { to 118]; Ford Motor lost } to 49{; General Electric was unchanged at 40[, and American Express rose \ to 27}. Convergent Inc. jumped 2 7-16 to 5~ in the over-the-counter market. Unisys Corp. agreed to acquire the company for $7 a share. The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks dropped .23 to 148.00. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index was down .51 at 296.06. Volume on the Big Board came to 149.69 million shares with an hour to go.
AP900602-0108 	X	The Communist government for the first time has allowed the family of a high-level defector to go abroad to visit him and it is considering letting him return from China, an official said Saturday. The government official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the move was meant as a gesture of good will toward China before the visit of Deputy Foreign Minister Dinh Nho Liem to Beijing. It will be Liem's third round of talks in China on the Cambodian civil war and other barriers to normalizing ties between Vietnam and China. The Vietnamese government allowed the wife and daughter of 87-year-old defector Hoang Van Hoan _ a founding member of the Vietnamese Communist Party _ to travel to Beijing to visit him last month, the government official said. The decision was made by the Politburo, the highest body of Vietnam's ruling Communist Party, he said. The official also said the Chinese government last month asked Vietnam to let Hoan return home. No decision has been made, the official said. But he added, ``People tend to think it's about time to take him back; even some high-ranking officials think so.'' Hoan, a member of the Politburo from 1957 to 1976, was the first top Vietnamese leader to defect to China. Hoan disappeared at Karachi airport in Pakistan in July 1979. A month later he surfaced in Beijing, he attacked the Vietnamese party leadership, saying it was guilty of using ``Stalinist'' methods and abandoning friendship with China for the Soviet Union. Hoan called for a revolution in Vietnam. The Vietnamese official who spoke Saturday said Hoan had also published a Vietnamese-language newsletter critical of Hanoi while he was in China. Vietnam and China were allies during the Vietnam War, but they had a falling-out in 1978 over border disputes, Vietnam's treatment of its ethnic Chinese population and growing Vietnamese-Soviet ties. China launched a brief border attack in early 1979, saying it wanted to ``punish'' Vietnam for invading Cambodia and toppling the Chinese-backed Khmer Rouge government. China continues to arm the Khmer Rouge and two other guerrilla groups now fighting the Vietnamese-installed government in Cambodia. However, relations with China have improved during Liem's three visits to Beijing over the past 15 months. An assistant Chinese foreign minister, Xu Dunxin, is to arrive in Hanoi on June 9 to continue the talks on Cambodia and normalizing relations. Xu will be leading the first senior Chinese delegation to Vietnam since 1979.
AP880518-0040 	X	Gov. Michael S. Dukakis is under sharp attack from critics at home, who say he ignored warnings of a state budget crisis because they came just before key presidential contests. Dukakis, the Democratic front-runner, has made a string of balanced state budgets a big selling point in his presidential campaign. This week, though, he announced that state revenues were more than $240 million below projections included in the budget. ``We're all aboard the government Titanic and instead of women and children first it's the captain and the crew first,'' House Taxation Committee Chairman John Flood said Tuesday. ``They will be rolling on across the Potomac River while the ship of Massachusetts goes down with the rest of us on it,'' said Flood, one of the few Democrats in the Legislature who criticizes Dukakis publicly. Dukakis' top budget aide dismissed the criticism, saying the governor told lawmakers a year ago the budget was based on revenue projections that might turn out to be overly optimistic. The critics acknowledged getting that warning when Dukakis used his veto power to slice $88 million from the budget. But they say the governor should have curbed spending beginning in January, when the administration conceded revenues for the first half of the fiscal year were lagging by $200 million. But the Dukakis administration said it expected revenues to improve, and meet targets. That soothing forecast came days before the Iowa caucuses, the first big test of the campaign year. ``If anybody tells you any of this stuff is not related to presidential politics, either they are naive or they think everyone else is,'' said Flood. Republicans among the Dukakis critics vowed to continue their attacks and predicted Vice President George Bush would pick up their themes during his expected fall campaign against Dukakis. ``They had to see the problem but they chose to ignore it and delay acting because it was not favorable to the governor's campaign,'' said House Minority Leader Steven Pierce. ``As he campaigned across the country it was his `Massachusetts Miracle' but now it's our deficit.'' ``They have known that the budget situation was worsening daily,'' said Republican Rep. John C. Bradford. He accused Dukakis of sidestepping his gubernatorial duties while ``fantasizing about moving to that white building halfway down the Atlantic coast.'' The figures released Monday showed the state was $243 million short for the fiscal year that ends June 30, forcing Dukakis to tap reserve and other funds to balance the budget. That figure is $166 million more than the shortfall projected by the governor's Revenue Advisory Board on April 12. By the campaign calendar, that's a week before the big New York primary, and two weeks before the Pennsylvania primary. Dukakis won them both, tightening his grip on the nomination with followup victories in Indiana and Ohio. The $243 million shortfall is in addition to $233 million for planned budget expenditures that have been canceled because of the fiscal crunch. ``Add that up and this state is $470 million out of balance,'' Flood said. ``They had to know it but they just ignored it for political reasons.'' Secretary of Administration and Finance Frank Keefe scoffed at the criticism, pointing to the vetoes last year and the legislature's rejection of a $255 million Dukakis-filed tax enforcement and fee package. ``I'm a little bit amused by folks who want to rewrite history,'' Keefe said Tuesday. ``It was the legislature that fully believed the future was going to be just like the immediate past, which was a period of enormous good fortune.'' Keefe said Dukakis had instructed him as far back as September 1987 to put together contingency plans to cut $185 million in spending and at several intervals since has told Keefe to look for further cuts. The administration considered the Revenue Advisory Board's April projected shortfall of $77 million conservative, but did not say so publicly because that might have hurt the state's credit rating, Keefe said. ``We weren't about to say absolutely that things were horrible when we had no concrete evidence that was the case,'' said Keefe.
AP900413-0155 	X	West German officials are bracing for a resurgence of leftist terrorism and right-wing extremism as a result of the coming unification of the two Germanys, published reports said Friday. East and West German Cabinet ministers meanwhile were preparing talks as early as next week to meet the July 1 goal of a ``monetary, social and economic union.'' In an interview with the respected Bonn newspaper Die Welt, the head of West Germany's criminal investigations office said the leftist Red Army Faction terror gang views the unification process as a ``wide open field.'' ``It is conceivable that the progress in unification also presents a potential danger,'' Die Welt quoted Hans-Ludwig Zachert as saying. Zachert said his office already had been in contact with its counterparts in East Germany. The Red Army Faction, after a series of attacks and slayings in the 1970s, remains in officials' eyes a continuing threat. The latest major attack attributed to the gang was the Nov. 30 slaying of Alfred Herrhausen, the No. 1 banker in West Germany. Zachert also warned the tumult in East Germany could bring an increase in organized crime and drug trafficking, which were virtually unknown under the toppled hard-line Communist regime. In Hamburg, the respected newsmagazie Der Spiegel reported West German counterintelligence officials were stepping up surveillance of the far right. ``Right-wing groups increasingly are striking up contacts in East Germany and getting good feedback there,'' the magazine reported. West Germany's extreme rightist Republican Party, despite facing mounting troubles at home, claims to have found recruits in East Germany since November's peaceful revolution. Der Spiegel quoted officials as saying in a report that ``after 40 years of political oppression, it follows as a matter of course that there will be radical to extreme rightist developments.'' Ultrarightists have tried to disrupt the weekly pro-democracy demonstrations in Leipzig several times. The magazine quoted officials as saying that right-wing extremism was likely to increase in a united Germany and that leftist terrorists had already found like-minded comrades in East Germany. ``Unification, the officials estimate, will lead to new activities of the Red Army Faction,'' according to Der Spiegel. In Bonn, Foreign Minster Hans-Dietrich Genscher said he wants to meet soon with his new East German counterpart, Markus Meckel, to prepare for unification talks involving the United States and the Soviet Union. Genscher, according to the Express newspaper of Cologne, said there was a ``highest measure of agreement'' between the two Germanys and that ``with such a common interest we Germans could be the architects of an undivided Europe.'' East Germany's new non-Communist government, led by Christian Democrat Lothar de Maiziere, took office Thursday.
AP881114-0197 	X	Brautigan published ``Trout Fishing in America,'' writer Hjortsberg hit it big with ``Falling Angel,'' and McGuane sold his novel ``92 in the Shade'' to Hollywood, launching himself as a popular screenwriter. And each began to load up on Chatham pictures. A born barterer, Chatham swapped his art for firewood and fishing rods, baby-sitting service and airline tickets, medical care and food _ even a handmade afghan. Which explains why a few dozen cowboys and merchants in Livingston now own Chatham originals worth thousands of dollars. Because, after nearly 200 one-man shows which usually lost money, after living on less than $15,000 annually, eked out through sales to friends and free-lance writing, Chatham has made enough in the last two years to stay out of debt with some left over. Today his paintings command up to $60,000, with an average of $10,000 to $30,000 per canvas. ``Now, 28 years after taking up this desperate line of work professionally, it appears the work is fulfilling its function, which is simply to add a measure of interest and dimension to people's lives in an almost subliminal way by inhabiting their walls just as a spirit might inhabit a gloomy stairway,'' writes Chatham in a slim brochure about his work. He has become the artist-of-choice for many of Hollywood's hip and famous. Actor Jack Nicholson reportedly owns 30 Chatham canvases. Other buyers include movie stars Jeff Bridges, Peter Fonda, and Dennis Quaid (all Paradise Valley transplants), Robert Redford, Jane Fonda, Ali McGraw, and Harrison Ford. Thus, the supreme irony of Russell Chatham's life is that, having moved away from the hyped-up fast lane of the California art scene where patrons abound, wealthy admirers found him by what he calls ``accident'' when they came to fly-fish and make movies in a small Montana town on the edge of nowhere. As Chatham talks, he paints, neither exercise hampering the other. He is dressed in untied tennis shoes, a rumpled shirt, and oil-splattered pants. He is a big man, barrel-chested, brawny-armed. His eyes are large and liquid, now brown, now gray, depending on the angle of the studio's flat north light. His nose, once described by a friend as a bobsled run, fits sideways on his face. The image is uncannily like a Gauguin self-portrait. It is a silent Sunday. None of the seven employees he now pays to keep track of his growing business are around. He has the entire second floor of a building which also houses Sax & Fryer, a bookstore which has helped Livingstonites find erudition since 1883. Stacked in the hallways are oils, acrylics, and large framed prints from his ``Missouri Headwaters'' series of 12 original lithographs. Most are going to Seattle for two major shows, one at the Davidson Gallery, the other at the Kimzey Miller Gallery, through late November. After years of living on the edge, Chatham at last finds himself riding the crest of a success his admirers say will last the remainder of his life. But for Chatham there is much more to living than just painting. There are his wife, Suzanne, and their 3-year-old daughter, Rebecca. There are new books to write and old ones to re-issue through his new publishing venture, the Livingston-based Clark City Press. There are pickup games of pool to be played with strangers across the street, birds to be hunted with old friends on cold days, fish to be caught. Writing in ``Sports Illustrated'' a few years ago, McGuane told of being in the river and looking up to see Chatham: ``I see my friend and neighbor, a painter, walking along the high cutbank above the river. This would be a man who has ruined his life with sport. He skulks from his home at all hours with gun or rod. Today he has both. ```What are you doing?' ```Trout fishing and duck hunting...As you can see,' says the painter gesticulating strangely, `I'm ready for anything. I spoiled half the day with work and errands.'''
AP880419-0027 	X	A Harvard University study strongly endorses Canadian electricity imports as a cheap alternative to Mideast oil and rejects a proposal from the domestic coal industry to limit the hydroelectric power. The report, released Monday by the Energy and Environmental Policy Center at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government, dismisses arguments that Canadian producers have unfair advantages over domestic utilities. It also dismisses assertions that reliance on Canadian imports could leave the United States vulnerable, and that government subsidies and lower environmental standards make the exports possible. Instead, it says, Canadian utilities can export hydroelectric power at a cheaper price than it costs to build new coal facilities because of Canada's vast water resources. ``Arguments about Canadian subsidies, lax environmental standards and national security implications are not only often factually wrong, but also divert attention from the real public policy issue,'' said Henry Lee, executive director of the center and co-author of the study. ``If Canada has greater access to inexpensive natural resources, should the U.S. federal government limit the ability of U.S. consumers to purchase those resources?'' Lee asked. The Harvard researchers estimated that the 35,300 gigawatt hours of Canadian electricity purchased by the United States in 1986 would increase by 1995 to between 52,000 and 63,000 gigawatt hours. A gigawatt is a billion watts. Canadian power imports represent only 2 percent of U.S. consumption nationwide, but they account for about 10 percent of the electricity used in New England and New York. The $75,000 study was paid in large part by utilities that benefit from Canadian imports. Lee said buying large chunks of Canadian power does not pose a national security risk since it is unlikely Canada would cut off electricity for political reasons. ``The security costs of any practically attainable level of Canadian imports are far outweighed by the national security benefits which accrue to the United States from reducing oil imports'' from Mideast nations, the report said. Rep. Nick Joe Rahall II, D-W.Va., countered, ``Political relationships are volatile with changes in leadership, and in no way can we use today's stable relationship (with Canada) as a basis for the future.'' Rahall, chairman of the House Interior subcommittee on mining and natural resources, introduced legislation last year that would prohibit Canadian power imports unless they adhered to environmental safeguards similar to those in the United States. The study also said that Canadian imports displace mostly imported oil and domestic natural gas, not coal. If all Canadian power contracts were cancelled, the coal industry would see a 2,479 increase in jobs, but it would cost U.S. consumers $114,123 per job, the study said.
AP900324-0046 	X	The co-leader of a team that crossed Antartica by ski and dogsled told several hundred cheering fans welcoming him home that he was thrilled to return to ``your warm hearts.'' Co-leader Will Steger and the other five members of the International Trans-Antarctica Expedition arrived Friday night at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport. The expedition had left the airport for Antarctica on July 26. It completed its 3,741-mile trek at Mirnyy on the Indian Ocean on March 3. The team also included co-leader Jean-Louis Etienne of France, Geoff Somers of Great Britain, Victor Boyarsky of the Soviet Union, Keizo Funatsu of Japan and Qin Dahe of China. On Friday night, a group of girls sang for the team and people in the crowd carried posters with ``Congratulations'' and ``Welcome Back'' written in French, English, Japanese, Russian and Chinese. Steger, of Ely, Minn., hugged his parents and then greeted 35 to 40 relatives before clasping hands with well-wishers. ``I can't tell you how thrilled we are to come back to Minnesota and your warm hearts,'' Steger said. ``The only thing that really kept us going was the love and prayers of the people back home. We are so thankful just to be alive.'' Steger said that he didn't learn about such events as the fall of the Berlin Wall for several weeks or, in most cases, until he arrived in Australia this month and read a magazine reviewing 1989. The team traveled to the Australian cities of Sidney and Perth, then to Paris and London before flying to Minneapolis. After festivities today on the lawn of the state Capitol, the team is scheduled to leave Sunday for Washington, D.C.
AP881127-0065 	X	Blacks and Jews who worked together in the civil rights movement plan a two-day reunion to emphasize their historical bonds and shared martyrs, rather than the recent political pressures that have strained their relationship. The Rev. Jesse Jackson, who has been at the center of concerns about black-Jewish relations since he was accused of making anti-Semitic remarks during his 1984 presidential campaign, was invited to the conference but was not among those who had confirmed plans to attend, said an organizer, Philip Shandler. ``It's not about the current political situation,'' Shandler said. ``It's focusing on the longstanding, productive relationship between blacks and Jews. It is essentially a history-gathering conference.'' Scheduled speakers include Benjamin Hooks, executive director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, and Al Vorspan, vice president of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations. The conference, which begins Monday, will focus on recording the memories of civil rights veterans while also honoring the movement's martyrs. A memorial service was planned Monday night at the Martin Luther King Jr. Center for Nonviolent Social Change. King's widow, Coretta Scott King, was to participate in the conference, along with Carolyn Goodman, the mother of Andrew Goodman; and Ben Chaney, a brother of James Chaney. Chaney, a black man from Meridian, Miss., and Goodman and Michael Schwerner, white Jews from New York, were killed in 1964 as they tried to investigate a church burning in Mississippi. Their slayings were described as ``the touchstone of black-Jewish cooperation in the civil rights movement'' by Jonathan Kaufman, also a conference participant, in his book, ``Broken Alliance: The Turbulent Times Between Blacks and Jews in America.'' Kaufman is a reporter with The Boston Globe. Shandler, a former columnist for the defunct Washington Star and a one-time Senate press secretary, and Leon Dash, a black writer for The Washington Post, plan to use the material they gather at the conference in a future book on the history of black-Jewish cooperation. The sessions, involving key figures of the time along with historians and writers, will take place at the Carter Presidential Center.
AP880719-0227 	X	George Bush is a ``toothache of a man'' who doesn't care about the problems of anyone but the rich, Texas Agriculture Commissioner Jim Hightower told delegates to the Democratic National Convention on Tuesday. ``George has always been in another world,'' Hightower said of the vice president, who has this year's Republican presidential nomination locked up. ``His is an upper-class world in which wealth is given to you at birth. He is a man who was born on third base and thinks he hit a triple.'' Hightower's speech during platform debate drew cheers and laughs from the delegates. It was the second night in a row that a Texan hurled insults at Bush, who claims a Houston hotel suite as his legal residence. State Treasurer Ann Richards skewered Bush in her keynote address Monday night, causing delegates to roar with delight when she said the vice president was ``born with a silver foot in his mouth.'' Hightower, who supported Jesse Jackson in this year's Democratic primaries, honed in on Bush early in his speech. ``Now here comes George Herbert Walker Bush II, perpetual preppie. He's of the Kennebunkport Bushes, don't you know. He's a toothache of a man, telling us to stay the course and threatening to lead us from tweedledum to tweedledumber,'' Hightower said. He asked delegates to look at their family finances and see whether the Reagan-Bush policies have made life better. Hightower said the wealthy have benefited. ``Bush's elite are out at the yacht club tonight, sitting about in their Guccis and Puccis, sipping a delightfully fruity and frisky white wine, saying, `Play it again, George,''' he said. He said Democrats can help family farmers, small businesses and working families that have suffered under the GOP administration. ``Let George Bush side with the Rockefellers. We Democrats will side with the little fellers,'' he said.
AP880326-0110 	X	Police arrested 21 members of a banned peace group who met in a Warsaw apartment Saturday, a spokesman for the group said. Jacek Czaputowicz, leader of Freedom and Peace, said there had been no attempt to keep the meeting a secret. It was the first time police detained members of the group at such a session, he said. The meeting was of the group's national board in charge of raising money, paying legal fines and providing financial assistance for imprisoned activists, he said. A municipal official arrived with police at the apartment at about 11 a.m. and declared the meeting illegal, Czaputowicz said. Police detained everyone present, and 17 people remained in custody Saturday night, he said. Opposition activists in Poland frequently are detained for up to 48 hours on misdemeanor charges. Freedom and Peace opposes Poland's military draft and demands the right to alternative civilian service. It continues to operate even though it has been declared illegal. On Friday, Poland's National Defense Ministry Council endorsed government proposals announced earlier to permit ``alternative forms of military service.'' Czaputowicz said the detentions may be intended to show that alternative service, if it eventually becomes law, did not result from pressure from Freedom and Peace.
AP880222-0291 	X	The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials climbed 25.70 to 2,040.29, hitting a new six-week high for the third straight session. Advancing issues outnumbered declines by more than 5 to 2 on the New York Stock Exchange, with 1,148 up, 420 down and 429 unchanged. Big Board volume totaled 178.93 million shares, against 180.30 million in the previous session. The NYSE's composite index rose 2.00 to 148.96.
AP900915-0004 	X	The average Japanese household has more than $86,000 in savings, up 16.6 percent from a year earlier, according to a study published today. It was the biggest increase in savings since 1973, when the average rose 28 percent from the year before, according to the national survey of more than 4,000 families. The annual survey was conducted in June and July by the Central Council for Savings Information, a non-profit group of Japanese financial institutions and scholars. The survey said the average rose to $86,700 because of an increase in earned income from a strong domestic economy. In September, Japan entered its 46th straight month of economic expansion.
AP900412-0129 	X	A former top legal adviser to U.S. Attorney General Dick Thornburgh is the target of a federal investigation of alleged cocaine use by public officials and professionals, sources said Thursday. Henry G. Barr of Mechanicsburg, who was general counsel when Thornburgh was governor and later was an assistant to Thornburgh when he became attorney general, is being investigated by the same grand jury that has been hearing evidence about alleged cocaine use and distribution by Richard Guida, a former top deputy in the state attorney general's office, the sources said. The sources, including several lawyers close to the case who were interviewed independently, said Barr's attorneys were in Washington earlier this week asking the Justice Department to block an indictment that would name Barr. In Washington, Justice Department spokesman Dan Eramian said Thornburgh and members of his personal staff withdrew from the federal investigation when they learned of its existence earlier this year. Eramian added that Thornburgh had no knowledge of the drug issue when he was governor. The sources also said Guida has agreed to plead guilty to one count of using cocaine and to cooperate with the federal investigation. Under the agreement, they said, Guida could face a short jail term and suspension of his law license. The sources spoke on condition of anonymity because grand jury proceedings are supposed to be secret. According to court documents, Guida has been a target of the federal investigation since May. The grand jury's attention turned to Barr more recently, the sources said. Barr did not return telephone messages left on the answering machine at his Mechanicsburg home Thursday. Guida did not return messages left at his Harrisburg law office. In previous interviews, he denied using cocaine and being a target of the probe. Assistant U.S. Attorney Gordon Zubrod declined to comment because of a policy that prohibits federal prosecutors from confirming or denying details of investigations. By being allowed to plead guilty only to a possession charge, Guida would sidestep allegations that he also sold cocaine and provided it to friends. At least one witness, Brenda Snell of suburban Harrisburg, said in an interview with The Associated Press that she told the FBI she had purchased cocaine from Guida and sold it to him on several occassions. Guida called those allegations ``bold-faced lies.'' This is the second time cocaine allegations against Guida have been investigated. In 1986, when he was a chief deputy under state Attorney General LeRoy S. Zimmerman, an internal probe found no evidence to support a radio reporter's allegations that Guida was a user. State Attorney General Ernie Preate Jr. said Thursday he would not investigate allegations that the initial probe was a whitewash because the federal grand jury also was looking at that aspect of the case. Barr, 46, worked in the state attorney general's office before joining Thornburgh's gubernatorial administration. He became Thornburgh's general counsel about 18 months before the governor left office in 1987. In Washington, he served as a special assistant to the attorney general from September 1988 to May 12, 1989. Last year, he resumed a private law practice in Harrisburg, but quit earlier this year after allegations surfaced that connected him to the case, the sources said. Barr and Guida each served as deputy attorney general in charge of the state attorney general's criminal division. Barr also served as an assistant U.S. attorney in Pittsburgh from 1969 to 1979. Through much of that period, Thornburgh was the U.S. attorney in western Pennsylvania. The grand jury investigation has lasted nearly a year.
AP900131-0139 	X	President Bush's State of the Union message will be aired live tonight on the major networks. Bush's address will be broadcast at 9 p.m. EST on ABC, CBS, NBC, CNN and C-Span, followed by a Democratic response from House Speaker Thomas S. Foley. Some local affiliates of PBS and Univision, a Spanish international network, also will carry the address and response, either live or as a tape-delayed broadcast. C-Span will rebroadcast the address at 11:30 p.m. EST.
AP900402-0254 	X	After posting the usual first-quarter declines, the number of working U.S. oil and gas rigs made a turnaround this week, increasing by 53 to total 946. The rig count climbed by a dozen or more in three states, and other areas also posted slight gains, Baker Hughes Inc. reported Monday. This week's increase reversed the rig count's downward slide _ a traditional trend in the first three months of the year. Last week, the count dropped by 15 to 893. Baker Hughes' rig count _ the widely watched industry index of drilling activity _ reflects the number of rotary rigs actively exploring for oil and gas as of last Friday, not the number of producing wells. A year ago, the rig count totaled 779. Houston-based Hughes Tool Co., an oil toolmaker company that merged with Baker International Corp. of Orange, Calif., has kept track of the rig count since 1940. In December 1981, at the height of the oil boom, the rig count reached a peak of 4,500. But oil prices plunged to less than $10 per 42-gallon barrel in the summer of 1986, prompting a collapse in the rig count that bottomed out at 663 _ the lowest since Hughes began compiling figures. Among major oil-producing states, Texas had the greatest increase with 15, Oklahoma followed with 13 and Lousiana's count climbed by 12. Wyoming's count was up six, North Dakota's increased by four and Colorado and New Mexico each gained three more rigs. Ohio's count was up two and California was up by one. Michigan lost three rigs and Pennsylvania lost ten rigs.
AP900707-0010 	X	Beneath a naked bluff on a mile-long Boston Harbor island known chiefly for its antiquated jail lie the unmarked graves of about 4,100 early immigrants whose American dreams ended in death. Most were famine-weakened Irish who fled their starving country in the mid-1800s only to be deemed ``undesirable'' and detained on Deer Island, where they died and until now were largely forgotten. ``They symbolize all immigrants that have come to Boston and to America,'' Mayor Raymond Flynn said this week. ``They may have been poor, probably didn't have any family and weren't among the elite. ``But still every respect should be afforded to their memory.'' Residents of Boston, home to more Irish-Americans per capita than any other U.S. city, are resurrecting the city's missing chapter. Deer Island's low-security jail is scheduled to close in 1991 and local business, labor and other groups plan to have the gravesite landscaped by 1995, the 150th anniversary year of the potato famine. The mayor has announced plans to erect a Celtic cross on the island and a statue near Fanueil Hall as part of the city's ``Great Hunger Memorial Project,'' the nation's first memorial to Irish famine victims _ and victims of hunger around the world. The graves on the island about four miles from Boston's wharves came to Flynn's attention several months ago, after construction workers turned up bones at a new sewage treatment plant site. ``You think of them getting this far, coming across the Atlantic and being able to look over and see the city ... only to end up in an anonymous pauper's grave,'' said Francis J. Costello, the mayor's adviser on Irish-American Affairs. ``We have to put a proper finish on this.'' Many of the thousands of immigrants held on Deer Island eventually made it to a new life on the mainland. But thousands more were buried in shallow, lime-lined trenches that held eight or 10 bodies each. Their anonymous graves tell the story of immigrants who saw but never reached America's shores. Ireland's population of 8 million was cut in half by fatal disease, starvation and emigration after a devastating plant disease hit the country's staple potato crop in 1845. During the next 10 years, more than 152,000 Irish fled to Boston, many of them tenant farmers forced to move on when they no longer could afford to pay rent. The Yankees were unprepared for the influx of penniless, weak and diseased immigrants, many of whom were near death after a month or more aboard the crowded ``coffin ships'' they had taken across the Atlantic. ``As a precautionary measure to ward off a pestilence that would have been ruinous to the public health and business of the city,'' a quarantine hospital was established on Deer Island, according to a Massachusetts Senate document dated 1848. Paupers and inmates also were held on the island because officials deemed them, like the Irish and a fraction of immigrants from other countries, ``undesirable within the core urban area,'' according to city documents. ``It was really a human dump heap,'' said Dennis P. Ryan, author of ``Beyond The Ballot: A Social History of the Boston Irish.'' Several rough-hewn wooden crosses stood for years on the bluff near the graves, but by about 1970 they had disappeared or disintegrated. A lone white Celtic cross also was erected amid the yellow rapeseed, but that too is gone. ``It wasn't a deep dark secret,'' said Deborah Cox, president of the Public Archaeology Laboratory Inc. in Pawtucket, R.I. ``I think it was just one of those things people don't pay attention to and then eventually forget,'' said Cox, whose company surveyed Deer Island before construction began on the new sewage treatment plant in late 1988. Boston's archivist, Edward Quill, has begun researching death records and handwritten weekly logs kept by physicians at Deer Island's quarantine hospital. For years the records have gathered dust, now they'll be available to genealogists and other researchers. Several Flynns have turned up among the 872 names Quill has traced. ``It could well have been any immigrant group that has come to our country,'' said Mayor Flynn. ``That's why we need a symbol, a decent resting place ... so their history won't be forgotten.''
AP880304-0058 	X	Vice President George Bush holds a strong lead over rival Bob Dole among likely GOP voters in South Carolina's primary, according to a poll published today. The Washington Post said Bush had the support of 49 percent of 1,000 people who said they would vote in the GOP primary, while Dole had 26 percent, Pat Robertson garnered 14 percent and New York Rep. Jack Kemp claimed 7 percent. Among those voters most likely to go to the polls _ those who said they were certain to vote, had voted in 1986 and strongly supported a specific candidate _ Bush had 55 percent support to Dole's 22 percent and Robertson's 17 percent. Figures for Kemp were not provided in that category. The Post survey, taken over six nights ending Wednesday, had a margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points. The South Carolina contest takes place just three days before the big round of Super Tuesday primaries and caucuses concentrated in the South. The Post survey found that even among several different categories of Christians, former television evangelist Robertson was not the favorite. Among voters who said they watch television evangelists almost every week, Bush got 44 percent to Robertson's 27 percent. The core of Robertson's support, according to the poll, was among voters who placed high priority on moral and social issues. About 83 percent of Robertson's backers said their main reason for supporting him was his stand on pornography. Robertson's stand on abortion was cited by 78 percent of his supporters as a big factor. About half cited concerns about ``declining moral standards'' or school prayer as the biggest reason for their support.
AP901014-0045 	X	American Telephone & Telegraph Co. has cut short its offer for U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia to call home for free. The troops racked up so many calls in one week that Saudi communications officials complained their long-distance lines were being clogged. After just one week, and an estimated 100,000 calls at a cost of $1 million, AT&T on Wednesday notified the military it was scrubbing its complimentary, direct-dial service, spokesman David Bikle said Sunday. AT&T had planned to offer USADirect Service to troops for two weeks. Soldiers are now charged $16.04 for a 10-minute call home. The charge is $18.29 for a 10-minute collect call, said AT&T spokesman Rick Wallerstein. The volume of calls had peaked at 1,500 an hour. ``With 100,000 calls, we gave most people a chance for one call home,'' Wallerstein said. AT&T, based in Basking Ridge, has yet to calculate the exact number of calls made since the service was discontinued, he said. U.S. troops have been deployed in Saudi Arabia since Iraq invaded neighboring Kuwait on Aug. 2.
AP881013-0193 	X	Delegates at the Conservative Party's conference Thursday jeered Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's ousted predecessor Edward Heath when he attacked her opposition to closer union among European Economic Community nations. Others applauded Heath when he hailed the scheduled dismantling in 1992 of all trade barriers within the EEC as a ``major movement toward the unity of Europe in every way.'' Mrs. Thatcher, to whom the 4,500 delegates sang ``Happy Birthday'' _ she turned 63 _ left the conference center to return to her hotel before the intervention by Heath. They have been on bad terms since she ousted him as party leader in 1975 after he lost two successive elections. Aides said she wanted to work on her keynote address to the final session of the four-day convention Friday. Earlier, treasury chief Nigel Lawson, the chancellor of the exchequer, promised more tax cuts ``when prudent'' and forecast a drop next year in inflation, now 5.7 percent and rising. But in his address to the convention in this south England resort he warned that interest rates, now at 12 percent, would remain high for ``quite a while.'' Heath, prime minister when Britain joined the EEC in 1973, said the rest of the 12-nation trade bloc would not tolerate Britain treating the post-1992 single market merely as a ``free trade area.'' ``It is a major movement toward the unity of Europe in every way,'' said Heath. ``It also concerns a common currency with a common monetary system and a common bank.'' Several dozen delegates raised small replicas of the Union Jack and waved notices declaring, ``No to Ted.'' In a policy speech last month in Bruges, Belgium, Mrs. Thatcher rejected a common European currency, bank or monetary system and said a United States of Europe would never come about. She criticized what she called the bureacracy at the EEC headquarters in Brussels. Foreign Secretary Sir Geoffrey Howe defended Mrs. Thatcher's rejection of what she regards as unrealistic talk of a united Europe. He said she was as much a European as French President Francois Mitterrand or West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, leaders of the two other biggest financial contributors to the EEC. On East-West relations, Howe said the West should not assume that Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's desire for reform was ``shared throughout the Soviet command structure.'' ``The Red Army and the KGB still loom in force,'' he said. ``That's why the West must go on negotiating (arms cuts) from strength.''
AP881130-0100 	X	Mice prone to developing a blood cell cancer gained partial protection from a human gene that influences blood cell development, suggesting that developmental genes may affect vulnerability to cancer, researchers say. Such genes may make a difference in how long normal cells remain susceptible to turning malignant, they said. The work is reported in Thursday's issue of the British journal Nature by Philip Leder, Michel Nussenzweig and Emmett Schmidt of Harvard Medical School with colleagues there and at the Childrens Hospital of Los Angeles. They worked with mice that carried a human c-myc gene, which puts them at high risk for developing a blood cell cancer called pre-B cell lymphoma. Pre-B cells are those that will develop as B cells, an important part of the body's disease-fighting immune system. Those mice were bred with others that carried a different human gene, one that makes B cells skip an early stage in their development. Some progeny from these matings inherited both human genes, and their lymphoma rates were compared to those that carried only the cancer-causing gene. Results showed that the gene that speeds development caused both a delay and a reduction in the tumors, researchers said. By 117 days of age, half the mice that carried only the cancer-causing gene had developed lymphoma, but none of the mice with both genes had developed it. After a year, more than 90 percent of the first group had developed tumors, compared to only 40 percent of the mice with both human genes. The developmental gene apparently hampered development of cancer by speeding up the maturation of pre-B cells, leaving fewer at stages most susceptible to the cancer-causing gene, researchers suggested. In general, a diverse group of genes that produce either an acceleration or pause in cell development may influence the rates and time of onset for cancer, researchers said.
AP900726-0160 	X	Democrats _ Hubbard, N; Mazzoli, N; Natcher, N; Perkins, N. Republicans _ Bunning, Y; Hopkins, Y; Rogers, Y.
AP900626-0203 	X	In tiny Bancroft, Maine, they gave an election and nobody came. In Texas, a hot primary campaign for governor drew 15 percent of the voters. In California, about 40 percent went to the polls on primary day, but that still was close to the record low established in 1986 for the state. Midway through the election year, experts are predicting 1990 will bring a continuation of a 30-year downward trend in voter participation. Analysts, politicians and voters interviewed around the country said voter frustration and disillusionment and the increasing complexity and stress of life seem to be at least partly to blame. ``I don't know anybody who was in a 10-minute traffic jam going to work 10 years ago who is not in a 45-minute traffic jam going to work now, and it doesn't matter who gets elected,'' said Curtis Gans, director of the Committee for the Study of the American Electorate. The private group tracks voter participation. In 1960, the year John F. Kennedy was elected president, 62.8 percent of registered voters cast ballots. By 1988, when George Bush was elected, turnout had dropped to 50.16 percent. In 1986, the most recent non-presidential general election year, only 37 percent made it to the polls. Edward J. Rollins, director of the Republican Congressional Campaign Committee, recently predicted turnout this year could go below 30 percent. ``I think part of it just has to do with folks just generally giving up on all of us,'' said Al La Pierre, executive director of the Democratic party in Alabama. In his state, the turnout of 750,000 voters in the June 5 primary was down by about 200,000 from 1986. ``They just don't see any need to go do it any more, which is sad,'' La Pierre said. Toni Grygo, who runs a hair styling parlor in Pittsburgh, said, ``The feedback that I get is that they are disillusioned. This is the main thing I hear from the women and some of the men that I do.'' In Bancroft, a rural community in northern Maine with 61 residents and 35 registered voters, Deputy Town Clerk Mary Irish said two or three people usually come out to vote in off-year elections. In presidential years, she said, turnout gets up to 14. In the June 12 Maine primary, nobody voted in Bancroft. Voting statewide appeared low, but final turnout figures had not been tabulated. ``It was a beautiful day and there should have been greater interest,'' said Keron Kerr, the state Democratic chairman. Alan Heslop, professor of government at Claremont McKenna College in Claremont, Calif., said part of the problem is population growth. After the 199l redistricting, California is expected to have legislative districts of 750,000 people, three times what they were in 1950. ``People feel powerless,'' said Heslop. ``It is hard to convince oneself that one vote is going to make a difference in these enormous, giant districts.'' Maybe the vote in Boise County, Idaho, helps make his point. The sparsely populated county had a turnout of 42.51 percent in Idaho's May 22 primary, about the same as in 1986 and much higher than turnout statewide in this year's primary. ``I think people vote here because we are so small that we feel like it really matters,'' said Jan Longpre, city editor of the weekly Idaho World newspaper in Idaho City. ``Even if it doesn't, we think it does.'' Heslop thinks people are turned off by the slick packaging that is wrapped around today's candidates. ``I think a lot of people are tired of the sound-bite approach to politics, the graphics mailer, the snappy computerized letter,'' he said. ``People are seeing that all of these things are in fact means of pulling the wool over the voters' eyes.'' ``That may to a degree be true,'' agrees Alabama Democrat La Pierre. ``But how else can you reach the masses but through TV?'' Gans believes negative campaigning is a big part of the problem. ``What they want to do with those ads is create doubts about the character of the opponent and weaken the impulse to vote among weak partisans and undecideds,'' Gans said. ``When this is reciprocally done, it has got to weaken the impulse on both sides.'' Nevertheless, despite a campaign widely criticized as negative, Virginia voters turned out in record numbers last year to make Douglas Wilder the nation's first elected black governor. ``In certain situations you can transcend the negative campaigns because the issues are more important,'' Gans said. Something else has changed beside campaigns, said Heslop, and that is the widespread perception among voters that incumbents have become unbeatable. ``It is something new for them to know that there is no way of throwing the rascals out,'' he said. Frank Sullivan, who runs a landscaping business in Cincinnati, said he votes anyway. ``I feel like it's our only revenge,'' Sullivan said. ``I don't think they pay any attention to us, but we are only making it worse for ourselves if we don't let them know we are out here.''
AP880419-0194 	X	More than 150,000 refugees fleeing a guerrilla war and drought in Mozambique are likely to arrive in neighboring Malawi over the next nine months, adding enormous strains to an already-taxed relief effort, the State Department said Tuesday. Malawi currently provides haven for 450,000 Mozambican refugees, but ``the population in Malawi is rapidly increasing and the most conservative estimates forecast 600,000 refugees will arrive by December 1988,'' according to a State Department report. The report said other African countries also are receiving large numbers of refugees. There are 75,000 in Zimbabwe, 30,000 in Zambia, 225,000 in South Africa, 72,000 in Tanzania and 20,000 in Swaziland. Within Mozambique, there are 1.6 million displaced people, the department said. ``Complicating the refugee situation is that Malawi has also experienced a drought and a mealy bug infestation,'' the department said. ``More than one million Malawians no longer have the resources to feed themselves.'' A consultant hired by the State Department to assess the magnitude of the problem and recommend U.S. responses said he interviewed a selected, geographically diverse sample of 200 refugees in camps between January and March. The consultant, at a background briefing arranged by the Bureau of Refugee Programs, said 91 percent of those he interviewed reported they Mozambique because of fighting between RENAMO, a potent guerrilla movement, and the Maputo government. The war has been going on since the mid-1970s. ``It reflects an intensity in the level of violence over the period of the last year,'' the expert said. ``I think the drought is an aggravating factor in increasing the refugee flows, but according to the refugees with whom I spoke, the great majority fled because of RENAMO related violence.'' The State Department has pledged $4.4 million to a UN special appeal for Mozambican refugees in Malawi. This is in addition to $33.4 million contributed to the UN's program covering all of Africa.
AP901031-0069 	X	Two sailors died of their injuries hours after being burned by bursts of steam aboard the USS Iwo Jima, boosting the number of men killed in the accident aboard the ship to 10. Chief Petty Officer Robert Haagenson of U.S. Naval Forces Central Command said today the two men died ``very late last night (Tuesday) as a result of their injuries.'' Six sailors died immediately when the pipe ruptured Tuesday morning. Four with severe burns were flown by helicopter to the hospital ships USS Comfort, one of two such vessels in the Persian Gulf. All four died. Also Tuesday, a Marine was killed in Saudi Arabia when the jeep he was riding in went down an 20-foot embankment. He was identified as 1st Lt. Michael N. Monroe, 27, of Auburn, Wash. Tuesday's fatalities brought to 43 the number of American servicemen killed during Operation Desert Shield, the U.S. military effort launched after Iraq invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2. Haagenson said a memorial service will be held Thursday aboard the amphibious assault ship Iwo Jima for the 10 dead crew members. Killed in the Iwo Jima accident were David A. Gilliland, 21, Warrensburg, Mo.; Mark E. Hutchison, 27, Elkins, W. Va.; Daniel Lupatsky, 22, Centralia, Pa.; Daniel C. McKinsey, 21, Hanover, Pa.; Fred R. Parker Jr., 24, Reidsville, N.C.; James A. Smith Jr., 22, Somerville, Tenn.; John M. Snyder, 25, Milltown, N.J.; Robert L. Volden, 28, New York City; Tyrone M. Brooks, 19, Detroit; and Michael N. Manns Jr., 22, Fredericksburg, Va. An investigating team, headed by Rear Adm. J. B. Laplante, was looking into the boiler room accident, a Navy statement said. It said Laplante was ``appointed to conduct a preliminary inquiry regarding the circumstances surrounding the accident.'' Laplante and his aides were flown to Bahrain on Tuesday from his ship, the USS Nassau, in the north Arabian Sea. The accident was the worst for the Navy in the U.S.-led air, land and sea mobilization that followed the Iraqi invasion. The only previous fatality on a Navy ship was an electrician's mate who was accidentally electrocuted aboard the USS Antietam. The Iwo Jima is based in Norfolk, Va. Its crew comprised 685 members and some 1,100 Marines. The ship arrived in the Persian Gulf on Sept. 16 as part of the U.S. naval armada in support of Operation Desert Shield.
AP900223-0204 	X	Prime Minister Ingvar Carlsson, head of Sweden's caretaker Cabinet, is ready to lead a new government to replace the one which resigned last week, the national news agency TT reported Thursday. Earlier Thursday, the Social Democratic leader informed Parliament Speaker Thage G. Peterson he was ready and able to present the government to the legislature for approval. He was expected to get active support from the small Communist Party and passive support for the comeback by the middle-of-the-road Center Party. His previous government resigned on Feb. 15 when the Communists joined other opposition parties to defeat a bill for a two-year wage and price freeze.
AP900130-0204 	X	Doctors at a London hospital said Tuesday night they had conducted what they believe are the world's first successful heart operations on a baby still in the womb. Lindsey Allan, the doctor in charge of the fetal cardiology unit at Guys Hospital, said the team there had corrected a heart valve defect in an unborn boy using a balloon catheter guided into place by ultrasonic sound. ``As far as I know this is the first successful operation of its kind,'' she said. She said two operations were carried out on the fetus during the mother's pregnancy, one at 31 weeks and the second at 33 weeks. Ms. Allan said the baby was born prematurely on Jan. 4 _ one week after the second operation _ and underwent surgery for the third time a few hours after birth. She did not say why there had been a delay in disclosing details of the operations. ``The child is still quite seriously ill, but we have given him a chance he would not otherwise have had,'' Ms. Allan said. She said the parents, who did not want to be identified, lived outside London. The operations involved inserting a catheter down a hollow needle directly into the chest wall and heart of the fetus. Once in place, the balloon was dilated to open the heart valve. A catheter is a slender tube inserted into a body passage, vessel or cavity. Its normal uses include passing fluids and making examinations. Ms. Allan said the team that pioneered the technique included herself; Michael Tynan, professor of pediatric cardiology; and Darryl Maxwell, director of the hospital's fetal medicine unit. She said there were always ethical obstacles to this type of operation. ``I am not sure that we should be meddling sometimes. There is always discussion as to whether it is a reasonable request to make of the mother. On the other hand, one knows that the alternative is almost universally fatal,'' she said.
AP900626-0189 	X	Record heat threatened crops, forced a desert water district to issue restrictions and sent hundreds of thousands of Southern Californians fleeing to beaches Tuesday as temperatures pushed past well into the 100s. The 112-degree high at the Los Angeles Civic Center was an all-time record for downtown, beating the previous record high of 110 degrees set on Sept. 4, 1988. Other areas that reached three digits were Woodland Hills with 112, Pacoima with 114, Ontario with 112, San Bernardino with 111, San Gabriel with 111, and Santa Barbara with 103. The deserts were even hotter. Palm Springs and Thermal recorded highs of 120, while Needles had a high of 119. The second day of high heat put firefighters on alert as brush already dry after four years of drought sat on hillsides shimmering in heat that dropped humidity below 10 percent. At least one brush fire was reported in the Sunland area northeast of downtown. The National Weather Service issued a heat advisory for inland orchards and vineyards in San Diego County, and growers said berry crops would be damaged immediately and some fruits could be lost if the heat continues. ``This is going to finish up the strawberries,'' said Ben Hillbrecht, a grower with about 200 acres near Escondido. ``And the boysenberries will cook right on the vine. We won't have any this year.'' He said the heat also will stop raspberry bushes from producing for about one month. Avocados have just appeared as tiny green buds, and Hillbrecht said if they don't get enough moisture, they may fall off. ``There are certainly some crops that are threatened, though at this moment we have seen no damage,'' said grower Jim Bathgate of Valley Center. He said fruits such as apricots and peaches still on the tree could be affected if the heat wave continues a few days, as the weather service has predicted. ``It won't help the water shortage, because everyone turns on their water to keep things as wet as they can,'' said Hillbrecht. In the Mojave Desert, the small Hi-Desert Water District in Yucca Valley announced use restrictions to begin Wednesday after the rural water company noticed an average six-to-seven foot drop in its wells. One well dropped 20 feet over the past six weeks. Irrigation will be limited to one day a week, and filling pools and washing cars at homes will be banned, along with water use for construction such as mixing concrete, Puffer said. The district serves about 5,200 customers. Not everybody was having a hard time with the heat wave. At Raging Waters, a 1.5-million-gallon water playground in San Dimas, Calif., business was also brisk, said spokeswoman Lynne Matallana. ``We love the hot weather. It encourages people to come out and visit us,'' she said. Hundreds of thousands of people headed to beaches, where temperatures were more than 20 degrees cooler than inland. Lifeguards reported nearly 100,000 at Santa Monica, 150,000 at Hermosa Beach and 40,000 at Zuma Beach in Los Angeles County.
AP880421-0288 	X	The European Economic Community recommended that its 12 member governments authorize individuals to make their own electricity and buy up all excess energy from private sources. The EEC's executive Commission said Thursday that private production of electricity is being discouraged or even banned throughout the trading bloc by legislation that presents ``insurmountable obstacles to self-generation'' of electricity by users. The Commission, in a formal recommendation, said the member governments should allow self-production and obligate utility companies to buy surplus energy at fair prices. Such a system, it said, would help stimulate the development of alternative sources of energy and lead to better use of available resources.
AP900621-0206 	X	A conservative lawmaker Thursday blamed the government for death threats made against a prominent critic, and warned there could be ``a violent reaction'' if human rights abuses by police are not curbed. The death threats directed against Jorge Castaneda, a prominent journalist and intellectual, have provoked an uproar. Castaneda has been an outspoken critic of the economic and political policies of President Carlos Salinas de Gortari and the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party. The city council of Mexico City has demanded an investigation of the threats. The U.S.-based Committee for the Protection of Journalists wrote a letter to Salinas that said it is ``profoundly worried'' about the threats. Cesar Coll, a federal lawmaker from the right-of-center opposition National Action Party, said the government was trying to intimidate Castaneda because he is one of its most prominent critics. ``The government is to blame for these threats,'' Coll told a news conference. ``If it doesn't gain control over the police, there could be a violent reaction.'' On Wednesday, the executive committee of the Institutional Revolutionary Party condemned the threats against Castaneda. It issued a statement calling them ``repugnant'' and adding that the case would be a good test for the government's new human rights commission. Earlier this week, Salinas called Castaneda from Tokyo, where the president was making a state visit, to express his ``solidarity in the face of this unacceptable incident.'' Salinas also made public a letter he wrote to Castaneda saying the threats go ``precisely against what I have maintained as an invariable norm of conduct for my administration.'' Last Friday, Castaneda's secretary said she was stopped by four armed men, interrogated at gunpoint and warned that her employer would be killed if he continued his activities. On Monday, she identified one of the men who threatened her as a member of the Mexico City judicial police. On her way home from the prosecutor's office, she said she was again threatened by an armed man. Castaneda said he holds the government responsible for his safety and that of his family. The incidents follow the release earlier this month of a report by a human rights monitoring group that sharply criticizes abuses by the police and security forces in Mexico. The report by the New York-based Americas Watch _ ``Human Rights in Mexico: A Policy of Impunity'' _ said violent human rights abuses have become institutionalized. ``This pattern of excessive violence and abuse can only mean that either the Mexican government has adopted a policy of tolerating such behavior, or it has lost control over its police, security and prosecuting agencies,'' the report said. ``Torture and extra-judicial killings by federal and state police and the country's security forces are disturbingly frequent in Mexico,'' it said. Americas Watch cited several cases in which journalists had been intimidated, kidnapped or murdered. The most notorious is the 1984 assassination of the outspoken columnist Manuel Buendia. The Salinas administration has indicted the former head of the Mexican equivalent of the FBI in the slaying. Castaneda has written for Newsweek, the Los Angeles Times and the Mexican magazine Proceso. He also coauthored the recent book on U.S.-Mexico relations, ``Limits to Friendship,'' with Robert Pastor of Emory University in Atlanta. Castaneda, the son of a former Mexican foreign minister, is a supporter of leftist opposition leader Cuauhtemoc Cardenas, leader of the Democratic Revolutionary Party. Cardenas ran a strong second to Salinas in the 1988 presidential election. Mexico's government and ruling party have long been accused inside Mexico of using threats and violence to intimidate opponents and election fraud to maintain the Institutional Revolutionary Party's 61-year-old grip on power. The Castaneda incident coming on the heels of the Americas Watch report has focused international attention on allegations of human rights abuses. In the past, Americas Watch said such allegations had been overlooked, saying this was ``more a testament to the Mexican government's careful cultivation of its pro-human rights image than its care to ensure that individual human rights are respected.'' Other government critics have reported receiving death threats. Norma Corona Sapien, the head of a state human rights commission in the west coast state of Sinaloa, received similar threats before she was gunned down on a street in the capital of Culiacan May 21. Salinas, who has pledged to end corruption and strong-arm tactics by the ruling party, created the National Human Rights Commission after the Corona slaying.
AP880618-0133 	X	Has Wall Street's so-called ``summer rally'' lost its sizzle, or are stock prices merely simmering before the heat gets turned up? The Dow Jones industrial average has climbed some 200 points since May 31, and this week alone the key index set two, consecutive post-crash highs before tumbling on fears of higher interest rates. But before assessing just what impact these events may have on what has been dubbed a summer rally, astute market watchers note that the sultry season hasn't even begun. ``It's not summer yet,'' said Ronald Daino, a technical analyst at Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co., noting the season officially gets under way on Tuesday. Depending on how things go, Daino said these recent events ``could be looked back upon as part of an initial summer rally.'' But he's not entirely convinced that is inevitable. ``We still feel it requires some confirmation on whether the market will move higher,'' Daino said. ``The potential is there, but I'd just like some additional confirmation before putting both feet in the water,'' he said, pointing to the drought's effect on commodity prices and the credit markets as areas of concern. Plunging bond prices obliterated the 32-point gain the Dow posted in back-to-back sessions this week that pushed the key average to two post-crash highs. Those who expected the Dow Jones average of 30 industrials to remain solidly above 2,100 and use that mark as a springboard for a further advance saw those plans evaporate in one brief session. Rumors out of Europe that West Germany and even possibly Japan are considering hiking interest rates ignited fears that the Federal Reserve might be forced to follow suit to support the dollar. The news deflated the bond market, and ripple effects spread to equities. But analysts shrugged it off, saying the stock market was overdue for a selloff, that it needed a breather and that the overall trend is ``constructive.'' Over the week, the Dow rose 2.31 points to 2,104.02. Friday's volume of 343.92 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange, attributed to moves to capture dividends and the quarterly ``triple-witching hour,'' was the busiest session this year and the fifth heaviest ever. Volume averaged 201.64 million shares a day. The NYSE composite index was off 0.05 at 152.84; the NASDAQ composite index for the over-the-counter market rose 0.67 to 386.92; and the American Stock Exchange market value index fell 3.63 to 305.70. Alfred Goldman, director of technical market analysis at A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc. in St. Louis, cautioned that he is both ``amazed and chagrined at how quickly pessimism has turned to optimism about everything.'' A better-than-expected trade deficit report, which heartened investors because both imports and exports had declined in April, should have been tempered with caution over factory utilization, which edged up beyond expectations in May, Goldman said. The implication is that booming business could result in shortages of some goods and price increases to compensate. Still, investors hot to perpetuate the ``summer'' rally are tossing off concerns about an overheated economy. ``Everybody is looking up as far as the stock market is concerned,'' Goldman said. ``That's a sign the market is over-bought and over-believed and that we're getting into a high-risk area.'' Goldman noted that optimism breeds declines in the market while pessimism is fodder for rallies.
AP900728-0132 	X	A single-engine, banner-towing plane on its way to the beaches crashed and burned shortly after taking off Saturday, killing the pilot, officials said. Jack Beale took off around 11 a.m. from the landing strip at Sky Signs' banner-plane airfield near Conway, just northwest of this resort, when the plane's engine apparently stalled and the plane crashed, officials said. The 63-year-old Conway man had just picked up a new advertising banner, which he was going to tow over the beachfront. He had no passengers. The plane exploded on impact, and the flames had virtually burned out when firefighters arrived, said Charlie Brown of the Horry County Volunteer Fire Department. Beale had been flying for Sky Signs for about three months, said company co-owner Mike Marion. Federal Aviation Administration officials from Atlanta were on their way to the crash site to investigate the accident.
AP881017-0217 	X	Today is Thursday, Oct. 27, the 301st day of 1988. There are 65 days left in the year. Today's highlight in history: In 1858, the 26th president of the United States, Theodore Roosevelt, was born in New York City. On this date: In 1795, the United States and Spain signed the Treaty of San Lorenzo, which provided for free navigation of the Mississippi River. In 1880, on his 22nd birthday, Theodore Roosevelt married Alice Lee. In 1886, the musical fantasy ``A Night on Bald Mountain,'' written by Modest Mussorgsky in 1867 and revised after his death by Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov, was performed in St. Petersburg, Russia. In 1904, the first rapid transit subway, the IRT, opened in New York City. In 1914, author-poet Dylan Thomas was born in Swansea, Wales. In 1938, Du Pont announced it had coined a name for its new synthetic yarn: nylon. In 1947, the radio show ``You Bet Your Life,'' starring Groucho Marx, premiered on ABC. It later became a television show on NBC. In 1954, Walt Disney's first television program, titled ``Disneyland'' after his yet-to-be completed theme park, premiered on ABC. In 1967, Expo '67 closed in Montreal, Canada. In 1982, China announced its population totaled more than 1 billion people, as counted by more than 5 million census takers. In 1985, former Navy man John A. Walker Jr. and his son, Michael Lance Walker, pleaded guilty in Baltimore to charges of spying for the Soviet Union. Ten years ago: Egyptian President Anwar Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin were named joint winners of the Nobel Peace Prize for their progress toward achieving a Middle East accord. Five years ago: President Reagan addressed the nation on the U.S.-led invasion of Grenada, saying the action had prevented a planned ``Cuban occupation'' of the island, and was aimed at protecting U.S. citizens there. One year ago: South Korean voters overwhelmingly approved a new constitution, establishing direct presidential elections and other democratic reforms. Associated Press correspondent Terry Anderson, held longer than any other foreign hostage in Lebanon, spent his 40th birthday in captivity. Today's birthdays: ``Tonight'' executive producer Frederick DeCordova is 78. Actress Teresa Wright is 70. Actress Nanette Fabray is 68. Baseball hall-of-famer and sportscaster Ralph Kiner is 66. Actress Ruby Dee is 64. Former White House chief of staff H.R. Haldeman is 62. Actor-comedian John Cleese is 49. Actress Carrie Snodgress is 42. Singer Simon Le Bon is 30. Thought for Today: ``Justice is too good for some people and not good enough for the rest.'' _ Norman Douglas, Scottish author (1868-1952).
AP880813-0054 	X	Though needle drug abusers often change their practices when told of the risks of AIDS, many still suffer immune system damage that may make it difficult to ward off the disease, a study suggests. Researchers also confirmed Friday that one's state of mind affects the immune system, and suggested it may make a difference with AIDS. The work was presented at the annual meeting of the American Psychological Association. The change in drug practices is significant because drug users are often thought not responsive to health warnings, said researcher John Watters. His study, done in San Francisco, found users cut back on the sharing of hypodermic needles, which can spread the AIDS virus, cleaned their needles more and increased their use of condoms during sex when told of the dangers. ``We found dramatic changes'' after a program to educate drug users began in 1986, said Watters, of the Urban Health Study in San Francisco. Intravenous drug abuse is blamed for about 19 percent of the nation's cumulative total of some 70,000 cases of acquired immune deficiency syndrome. Workers in the San Francisco program told drug abusers about AIDS prevention measures, distributed condoms and gave out bleach to disinfect needles. Researchers studied drug and condom practices of 386 drug users interviewed in 1986 before the program began, and 545 users interviewed in early 1987 some eight months after the start of the program. An additional 534 were sampled later in 1987, and 553 in early 1988. Use of ``safe needle hygiene'' rose from 13 percent of the time drugs were used before the outreach program to 63 percent afterward. Safe hygiene was defined as using bleach, alcohol, hydrogen peroxide or boiling water to disinfect needles, or not sharing needles. The follow-up surveys found hygiene used 70 percent of the time in late 1987 and 71 percent in early 1988. The estimated number of sharing partners dropped from an average of 11 before the outreach program to eight in early 1987, with nine and five reported in the following two surveys. Condom use rose from 3 percent of the time before the outreach program to 16 percent afterwards, with 23 percent in each of the follow-up surveys. Blood tests found that the rate of users exposed to the AIDS virus jumped from 6 percent in early 1986 to 13 percent in early 1987, with 9 percent and 11 percent in the following two surveys. James Sorensen of the University of California, San Francisco, who has studied AIDS prevention among drug users in treatment, said Watters' results on behavioral change ring true. But, he warned, `` We need to work very hard to reach people who haven't been reached.'' The study of drug users in treatment focused on 30 outpatients in a long-term methadone program. None had been infected with the AIDS virus, said Nancy Klimas of the University of Miami School of Medicine and the Veterans Administration Medical Center in Miami. But they showed significant deficiencies in the functioning of their disease-fighting immune system, she said. For example, the functioning of their ``natural killer cells'' was about half of normal, she said. Poor nutrition, non-AIDS infections, prior drug abuse or perhaps the methadone may be responsible, but no cause has yet been found, she said. Don Des Jarlais of the New York State Division of Substance Abuse Services said previous research has shown that immune abnormalities in drug users can take years to disappear once they enter methadone treatment. Klimas' study also found that immune system function was better by several measures in abusers who showed greater ``hardiness,'' defined as commitment to life, a feeling of control and a tendency to see stresses as challenges. Loneliness and confusion were associated with poorer immune system performance, she said. But no cause-and-effect conclusion can be drawn from any of the psychological data, she cautioned. Another study released Friday found that for homosexual men soon after AIDS infection, immune system functioning was better in men determined to get on with life, who focused on and expressed their emotions, and who had a feeling of psychological robustness. Again, no cause-and-effect conclusions can yet be drawn, said Nancy Blaney of the University of Miami School of Medicine.
AP901215-0089 	X	Here is the official text of the European Community statement on South Africa issued Saturday. The European Community and its member states have consistently followed developments in South Africa with the greatest attention and have given a favorable reception to the initiatives which have been to bring about the abolition of apartheid and the establishment of a united, non-racial and democratic South Africa. They have already expressed approval of the results of the talks between the government and the ANC (African National Congress), in particular those of the Pretoria meeting in August which opened the way to the negotiation of a new constitution. They deplore the phase of serious violence through which South Africa is passing, which may endanger these developments. They welcome, however, further indications serving to confirm that the process of change already begun is going ahead in the direction advocated by the Strasbourg European Council. They have decided to continue to encourage this process. Against this background, the European Council has decided that as soon as legislative action is taken by the African government to repeal the Group Areas Act and the Land Acts, the Community and its member states will proceed to an easing of the set of measures adopted in 1986. As of now, so as to contribute to combating unemployment and improving the economic and social situation in South Africa, and to encourage the movement under way aimed at the complete abolition of apartheid, the European Council has decided to lift the ban on new investments. At the same time, the Community and its member states, with the objective of sending a clear message of political support to the victims of apartheid, and intending to contribute to a new economic and social balance in South Africa, have agreed to strengthen the program of positive measures and to adapt it to the requirements of the new situation, including requirements related to the return and resettlement of the exiles. The Community and its member states hope in this way to be able to contribute to the speeding up of the process under way through sending to all the parties involved in negotiations a concrete sign of support for the establishment of a new South Africa, united, non-racial and democratic and capable of resuming the place which it deserves in the international community.
AP900301-0248 	X	Walter Hasselbring's secrets for achieving the nation's highest corn yield are a lot of bull. The national corn king credits his top-notch crop to generous applications of the real thing from his cattle and his buffalo herd, Illinois' largest. But he teases unsuspecting visitors with another success secret, telling them he grew 296 bushels per acre last year by serenading his corn. ``I tell them plants respond to music, so at crucial times I stroll through my cornfields singing to the plants and you can almost see them grow,'' chuckled Hasselbring, who has grown the nation's best-yielding corn crop seven times in the last 15 years. The National Corn Growers Association sponsors the contest, and 2,057 farmers entered during the 1989 growing season. There were seven divisions, depending on the type of tillage, the area of the country and whether irrigation was used. ``Farmers compete not only to see who can grow the most corn but also to come up with new management ideas that could make all farmers more efficient,'' said John Campen of the St. Louis-based association. Hasselbring's yield was the highest in the 1989 contest, said Campen, and established a U.S. record, topping his 1975 mark of nearly 289 bushels per acre. His winning yield was more than twice the 138-bushel-per-acre average in Iroquois County, where Hasselbring farms 1,800 acres in east-central Illinois with his two sons. ``You can do everything else right, but if you don't get the rain, you won't win,'' Hasselbring said in an interview Wednesday. A high level of fertility also is crucial. Hasselbring uses about 300 pounds of nitrogen per acre _ roughly twice his normal rate. He adds manure from his cattle herd and his 105 buffalo. Farmers pay $50 to enter the competition. They plant a contest plot of at least 25 acres. Hasselbring's corn went in May 5, and the growing season was ideal. As the crop matured, Hasselbring walked his contest field. ``I could tell things were looking up,'' he said. ``After all these years farming, you just get an inkling of what's going on. But, when it was harvested, it was even more than we expected.'' Judges approved by the National Corn Growers Association supervise the harvest of at least 1.25 acres from each contest plot. Hasselbring's was combined Nov. 13-14. Rules require farmers to harvest at random intervals so they cannot pick the best area of the field. University of Illinois agronomists Fred Welch and Bob Hoeft agree with Hasselbring that shooting for 300-bushel yields on a large acreage is a big gamble given high growing costs and the inability to control weather. ``Winning might not mean getting the best dollar-return for your inputs, and it is profit, not a record yield, that is really important for commercial farmers,'' Welch said. Although the national corn surplus is approaching 2 billion bushels, the idea that more corn means less profits isn't what would keep farmers from adopting high-yield techniques, Campen said. It is the expense of producing such yields. ``The economics, at least today, on a broad scale basis wouldn't warrant it,'' he said. Officials at Fred Gutwein & Sons Inc., a family-owned corn and soybean seed company based in Francesville, Ind., that provided hybrids to Hasselbring, said his success improved Gutwein name recognition and sales. ``Our hybrid met the challenge,'' said sales manager Eric Gutwein. ``But, it takes a very special individual like `Duke' Hasselbring to achieve the pinnacle seven times.''
AP900418-0220 	X	Those fearful predictions of 20 years ago that environmental demands would cause unemployment and economic stagnation have turned out to be overstated, a business leader says. Experience has shown that combating pollution is compatible with economic growth, said Alexander Trowbridge, a former secretary of commerce and chairman of the National Association of Manufacturers' Industry Coalition for the Environment. ``Environmental improvement has been a corollary to economic growth and has not come in spite of it,'' Trowbridge told a news conference Tuesday. He said the ``dire predictions about environmental improvement coming at the cost of jobs and national economic strength and high prices'' have proven to be exaggerated. At the same time, he said, environmentalists' warnings ``that Lake Erie would be dead, urban dwellers would be wearing gas masks, rivers would be reaching a boiling point,'' also were overdrawn. Trowbridge said he was not contending there will not be tradeoffs between jobs and the environment. But, he said, the record since Earth Day 1970 ``indicates that economic growth, moderate but real, has taken place in these 20 years and environmental improvement has also taken place.'' ``My judgment is that we've made progress both in the economy and the environment and I think we'll continue to do so,'' he said. Trowbridge presented a report that said production of six major pollutants has dropped sharply since 1970, while employment, productivity, per capita income, industrial production and the overall size of the economy have grown steadily. Environmentalists said they suspected that Trowbridge had made an Earth Day conversion. Earth Day is being commemorated on Sunday with events scheduled nationwide. ``Talk is cheap and action is not cheap,'' said David Gardiner, legislative director of the Sierra Club. ``It's the don't-worry-be-happy message at the same time the NAM and their members are spending millions of dollars lobbying against changes in law which would do a better job in improving the environment. ... What we're seeing from industry is Earth Day earth-hype.'' ``It is an encouraging-sounding message, but just in the last month and a half we've seen from the Business Roundtable and other industry groups the most apocalyptical hype about how the Clear Air Act is going to kill the economy,'' added David Doniger, senior attorney for the Natural Resources Defense Council. ``It will be interesting to see if, next time there is a piece of legislation to be acted upon, the NAM will take a more enlightened line,'' he said. But Trowbridge said a fundamental change has taken place in corporate America. Environmental considerations are now being taken into account in business decisions, he said. ``Environmental quality is a very key element of planning, designing, building and producing,'' he said, ``and this has been growing not only as a psychological factor but as a point of stated policy.''
AP880718-0041 	X	The first time Idaho delegate Joe Williams attended a Democratic national convention, he cast his vote to help nominate Franklin Roosevelt for a fourth term in the White House. Attending his ninth national convention this week, Williams, 84, says he's every bit as thrilled. ``It's still just as exciting. We get all the hoopla and hurrahs, even though it's cut and dried like this one,'' said Williams, Idaho's auditor for 30 years. Williams said the vote he plans to cast for Michael Dukakis will be his last as a national delegate. He said he plans to retire from politics when his present term expires in two years.
AP880915-0151 	X	The fans who still buy Elvis Presley souvenirs now can pay for them with a flashy black credit card bearing the singer's image. ``Give your autograph to Elvis. ... Become part of the legend,'' says a brochure advertising the Presley MasterCard. Applications were sent to 200,000 people around the country this week, and Jack Soden, manager of Presley' former residence in Memphis, said more than a million will be mailed over the next couple of months. Soden said the MasterCard is being issued by Leader Federal Savings and Loan of Memphis. The non-profit Elvis Presley Memorial Foundation will get half the $36 annual fee for the MasterCard, and a portion of the 17.88 percent interest applied to card balances also will go to the foundation, Soden said. He declined to say what portion of the interest charges will go to the foundation or to estimate how much money the card will generate. The foundation was set up in 1985 by executors of Presley's estate but it has had little operating income, he said. The singer died in 1977. Income from the credit card will support programs in music education, for medical care for the underprivileged and for assistance to the homeless, Soden said. The Elvis credit card has a black background with a drawing of Presley in a singing pose with a guitar in his hands. The drawing is surrounded by red and gold lights from a jukebox. ``The card is absolutely gorgeous,'' Soden said. More than 600,000 tourists and fans visit Graceland each year and the Graceland complex, which includes a 36,000-square-foot shopping center, takes in some $9 million a year. The estate is run for the financial benefit of Presley's only child, Lisa Marie Presley.
AP880726-0202 	X	At least half the thousands of operations on Americans with ruptured discs in their lower back probably were unnecessary, says a study showing 90 percent of such patients can be healed without surgery. The three-year study indicates that surgeons should change how they decide whether to operate on patients with lumbar disc problems, one of the study's authors, Dr. Jeffrey Saal of the San Francisco Spine Institute, said Monday. Neurosurgeons often operate if a patient fails to improve after bed rest and suffers severe pain, leg weakness and if diagnostic exams show the disc's nucleus has broken through the disc wall and is pressing against a nerve root. Saal said none of those criteria should be used as overwhelming evidence that surgery is needed. He said the decision should be based on the patients' level of function and whether that can be improved by an aggressive rehabilitation program.
AP900405-0006 	X	About the time Nelson Mandela went to jail 27 years ago, Lenford Ganyile fled South Africa after a violent encounter that cost him all his teeth and most of an ear. A South African policeman's rifle butt knocked out his teeth, Ganyile said, and a bayonet sliced off the ear. Ganyile, 68, has been in exile since, first in Botswana and then in Zambia, where Mandela's African National Congress set up its headquarters. In February, President F.W. de Klerk of South Africa legalized the ANC and freed Mandela. ``I am waiting for Comrade Mandela to tell me what to do next,'' said Ganyile, a respected elder on the ANC's 7,200-acre Chongela collective farm in Zambia's fertile Ngwerere district, 25 miles north of Lusaka. Although he is eager to go home, Ganyile has difficulty remembering the wife and three children he left behind. ``In the early years, I sent them letters but had no reply,'' he said. ``I was afraid they would get into trouble, so I stopped writing.'' Occasionally, he heard news of his wife from newly arrived exiles. Then he lost all contact. ``The struggle became my family,'' Ganyile said. ``I saw my ear was not there and it reminded me always that I wanted all our people to be free.'' He is one of thousands of South African exiles scattered through the world whose lives were transformed by the lifting of a 30-year ban on the African National Congress and Mandela's release Feb. 12. The ANC has said most of its exiles probably would be home by the end of 1990. ``It is a dream to me,'' said Ganyile, a veteran of the Pondo rebellion of the late 1950s, when scores of blacks were killed in riots against South Africa's official apartheid policy of race segregation. Ganyile, who spent 20 months in jail, said he was arrested for leading ANC protesters in the Pondoland region near Mandela's home in Transkei. ``We were fighting one of the worst devils on earth, the Bantu Authorities Act'' and its discriminatory laws, he said. After fleeing South Africa, Ganyile used his farming experience to teach other exiles. He is on the Chongela farm's management committee. Farm manager Leslie Ponusamy said the property, three adjoining farms owned by whites before independence from Britain in 1964, feeds about three-quarters of the 2,000 ANC members who live in Zambia. Vegetables and maize grow on the farm, and the residents raise cattle, sheep, pigs and ducks. ``We don't produce everything for a balanced diet,'' said Ponusamy, a veterinarian who was a student activist in South Africa's Natal province. ``We sell the surplus of one thing to buy other things we need.'' Young exiles are sent by ANC headquarters in Lusaka to learn practical skills on the farm. Foreign donations help finance a dairy, slaughterhouse, several workshops and an auto repair shop. ``Most of our young people interrupted their educations when they left South Africa,'' Ponusamy said. Dan Twala, 22, said he fled after being assaulted by police in 1987, during a disturbance in a black township. ``I came to join the struggle,'' he said. ``Now all I want to do is to go back to see the family.'' What will happen to the farm when everyone returns home? ``Perhaps we will give it to the Zambian government,'' Ponusamy said. ``When we no longer need it, we will leave it as a momument, some sort of remembrance, to our struggle.''
AP880312-0171 	X	A bomb exploded Saturday near a polling booth in Dhaka, killing one person and wounding three as Bangladeshis cast ballots in nine districts where voting had been postponed because of earlier violence. Police said Borhanuddin Ahmed, 25, was killed in the explosion in downtown Dhaka. At least 13 people were killed and more than 300 were wounded in violence during the parliamentary elections held on March 3, and the government stopped and rescheduled the voting in 125 districts. Elections were held in nine districts Saturday, but no results were reported. The major opposition parties boycotted the elections. President Hussain Muhammad Ershad's Jatiya Party won 245 seats in the 300-member parliament in the March 3 balloting, according to results announced by the government. It said a coalition of 73 smaller groups and parties won 15 seats and independent candidates won 15. Ershad's party plans to celebrate its victory with prayer meetings on March 16. Opposition parties have called for protest rallies on March 24, the sixth anniversary of the bloodless coup that brought Gen. Ershad to power. Leading the opposition campaign are Sheik Hasina and Khaleda Zia who have demanded that Ershad resign.
AP880225-0209 	X	Here are excerpts of the government's new regulations banning political activity by major opposition groups:
AP880519-0208 	X	Legislation designed to protect government employees who disclose wrongdoing was approved unanimously by a Senate committee Thursday. The bill's sponsor, Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., said the measure makes it easier for whistleblowers to win a reprisal case and guarantees them the right to a hearing. The bill ``sends a strong message to federal employees that they will not be punished for disclosing government fraud, waste and abuse,'' Levin said. Thursday's approval by the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee clears the way for consideration of the bill by the full Senate. Under the bill, the Office of the Special Counsel, an independent federal agency, would have responsibility for protecting employees who disclose wrongdoing. ``Recent statistics show that 70 percent of federal employees claiming knowledge of waste, fraud and abuse fail to report it,'' Levin said. ``These statistics are proof that the current system has failed to convince employees that they will be rewarded instead of punished if they disclose government wrongdoing.''
AP900312-0084 	X	More than 400 bird-watchers turned up at the crack of dawn at a sewage plant to get a glimpse of an apparently disoriented arctic bird rarely seen south of Canada, a Ross's gull. ``I woke up at 4:15 to come out here,'' said George Armistead, 16, of Philadelphia. ``I never thought I'd see the day when a Ross's gull would land so close I could make the drive in a little over two hours.'' At 8:35 a.m. Sunday, someone finally spotted the gull in flight. It eventually settled down to preen for a half-hour near a creek behind the Back River treatment plant in suburban Baltimore. ``What makes this Ross's gull so unique is that every other past record has been a one-day wonder,'' said birdwatcher Rick Blom. ``This Ross's gull has already been in Baltimore for more than a week.'' Blom said the gull is a long-distance migrator that has a tendency to get blown off course. The first confirmed U.S. sighting of a Ross's gull was believed to have been in 1975 in Salisbury Beach, Mass. Unconfirmed sightings have been reported as far afield as Tennessee and Colorado.
AP901207-0062 	X	The judge who set bail at $300,000 for the alleged killer of Rabbi Meir Kahane suspended it a day later, and the district attorney said the original motion granting bail was made over his objections. State Supreme Court Justice Alvin Schlesinger, who approved the $300,000 bail for El Sayyid Nosair on Wednesday, suspended it on Thursday and scheduled a new bail hearing for Monday. District Attorney Robert Morgenthau said Thursday that his office had requested Nosair be held without bail. ``We pointed out to the court that he is accused of committing a number of exceptionally serious crimes, including both the murder of Rabbi Kahane and the wounding of a federal police officer,'' Morgenthau said. Nosair, 35, of Cliffside Park, N.J., is accused of shooting the Zionist activist last month as Kahane finished a speech at a New York City hotel. He also is accused of wounding two other men as he fled. One of the two, a postal service police officer, wounded Nosair. In a statement to police, attached to a disclosure form filed in court, Nosair told police Kahane was actually shot by another person and that he was framed. He said he went to hear Kahane's lecture because he agreed with much of the rabbi's philosophy.
AP881025-0151 	X	An Illinois pastor has been chosen to succeed Dr. Oswald Hoffman as speaker of ``The Lutheran Hour,'' an English-language program broadcast internationally over 1,300 radio stations each week. Dr. Dale A. Meyer will take over for Hoffman, who is retiring Dec. 31 after 33 years as the program's speaker. Governors of the International Lutheran Laymen's League selected Meyer during a meeting last weekend in St. Louis. Meyer, 41, has been pastor of Holy Cross Lutheran Church in Collinsville since 1984.
AP900205-0193 	X	Former U.S. Attorney General Edwin Meese III and Andre Gratchev, Soviet deputy minister for international affairs, debated at Oxford Monday night on the relative values of the U.S. Constitution and socialism. The motion proposed by Meese at Oxford University's venerable debating society that ``this house believes that the values of the American Constitution, not of socialism, will shape the world in the coming century'' was carried by 351 votes to 235. About 1,000 students packed Oxford Union to hear the speeches. The debating society is a training ground for politicians and a hotbed of talk, wit and showing-off. Opposing the motion, Gratchev urged: ``Do not bury socialism. Perestroika is being tried by us to allow socialism to win. Socialism is capable of providing answers to human problems.'' He said many Western writers had predicted perestroika would fail because, they said, it was impossible to reform socialism. But Gratchev said perestroika involved irreversible change. ``It will continue to alter the world and profoundly change the nature of socialism,'' he said. ``The purpose of perestroika is to subject socialism to historical change. The 21st century will be the century of change. Right now the change is coming from the East, from the Soviet countries, from Moscow. But it is not anti-capitalist.'' Meese said socialism had not worked, could not be defended and was being cast aside. He said the value of the U.S. Constitution lay in giving to people the ability to bring about change through democratic processes. ``We recognize the Constitution will not solve all the problems of mankind, but it allows the process whereby people can attempt to solve problems through their elected representatives,'' Meese said. He said this was a potential recognized by more and more oppressed people. ``That is why a copy of the Statue of Liberty was raised in Tiananmen Square,'' he said, referring to the pro-democracy demonstrations crushed by Chinese troops in Beijing last year.
AP901220-0132 	X	Kenneth L. Peoples, acting president and chief executive officer of the Farm Credit System Assistance Board, was named to that post Thursday by Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter. Peoples had been general counsel and corporate secretary to the board before being named to the acting posts Aug. 15. Yeutter is its chairman. The board is a government corporation created by Congress in 1987 to provide help to the Farm Credit System, a farmer-owned network of cooperative lenders. Yeutter also announced the appointment of Kathleen M. Mullarkey as general counsel and corporate secretary. She had been acting in that capacity since Aug. 15. Before that, she was deputy general counsel to the board.
AP901207-0152 	X	A former Salvadoran army intelligence agent who said he participated in ``death squad'' operations in his homeland was sentenced to six months in prison Friday for illegally entering the United States. Cesar Vielman Joya-Martinez was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Claude M. Hilton. Joya-Martinez, convicted Sept. 19, could have received a two-year prison term. The 27-year-old Joya-Martinez has said he took part in death squad operations of the Salvadoran army's First Brigade. Joya-Martinez, who had been deported from the United States in 1983, was arrested last spring after he appeared at an administrative hearing to determine if he were eligible for political asylum. Joya-Martinez's attorney, Daniel S. Alcorn, said his client returned to the United States because he feared Salvadoran soldiers were plotting to kill him to make him a scapegoat for death-squad killings.
AP881107-0195 	X	Grain and soybean futures prices were mixed in volatile early trading today on the Chicago Board of Trade. All the markets opened lower, but then soybeans moved sharply lower while wheat turned higher. ``It's a bloodbath here this morning'' in the soybean pit, said Victor Lespinasse, a trader with Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. in Chicago. Soybeans for delivery in November fell 10 cents a bushel in the first half-hour of trading. ``The market opened weaker than expected, then sold off sharply,'' Lespinasse said. ``There's just a bearish mentality that started after the bulls were unable to rally the market.'' Some blamed the early soybean sell-off on disappointment over the slow pace of grain sales for export. The Soviet Union bought a large amount of U.S. soybeans and soybean meal last week, but the Agriculture Department has not confirmed rumors of further large Soviet purchases. In early trading, wheat was \ cent to 1{ cents higher with the contract for delivery in December at $4.16{ a bushel; corn was 1\ cents to 2\ cents lower with December at $2.75} a bushel; oats were 2{ cents lower to 2\ cents higher with December at $2.14{ a bushel; soybeans were 2} cents to 11 cents lower with November at $7.82 a bushel. Livestock and meat futures were mixed in early trading on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. Live cattle were .23 cent lower to .08 cent higher with December at 73.52 cents a pound; feeder cattle were unchanged to .10 cent higher with November at 81.60 cents a pound; live hogs were .10 cent lower to .40 cent higher with December at 41.67 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .05 cent to .45 cent higher with February at 46.60 cents a pound. Livestock and meat futures settled higher on Friday.
AP900817-0080 	X	Brisbane M M M Brussels 68 50 clr Budapest 91 72 cdy B'Aires 64 54 clr Cairo M M M Calgary 77 54 cdy Caracas 84 68 cdy Copenhagen 70 66 clr Dublin 62 51 cdy Frankfurt M M M Geneva 81 61 cdy Harare 73 45 cdy Havana 89 77 clr Helsinki 75 61 cdy Hong Kong 91 81 cdy Istanbul 86 72 clr Jerusalem 86 64M Jo'burg 64 36 clr Kiev 82 63 clr Lima 63 55 cdy Lisbon 82 68 clr London 70 54 cdy Madrid 95 66 clr Manila 90 75 rn Mexico City 77 52 clr Montreal 79 61 cdy Moscow 70 55 clr Nairobi 68 55 cdy Nassau 91 82 cdy New Delhi 89 79 cdy Nicosia M M M Oslo 72 57 clr Paris 72 54 cdy Rio 91 67 rn Rome 90 64 clr San Juan 82 77 cdy Santiago 72 36 clr Sao Paulo 77 57 rn Seoul 86 64 clr Singapore 86 73 rn Stockholm 72 63 rn Sydney M M M Taipei 88 77 rn Tel Aviv 84 73M Tokyo 91 82 clr Toronto 82 64 cdy Vancouver 73 61 cdy Vienna 82 68 cdy Warsaw 82 59 clr
AP900807-0073 	X	More than a dozen rockets slammed into Afghanistan's capital of Kabul today, killing 14 people and injuring 10, Afghan state radio reported. No one immediately claimed repsonsibility for the attack. But the Radio Kabul broadcast, monitored in Islamabad, blamed ``extremists,'' presumably referring to U.S.-backed guerrillas headquartered in Pakistan. Moslem insurgents have been fighting for more than a decade to topple Afghanistan's Communist-style government. In the past year, hundreds of people have died and thousands more injured in rocket assaults on the Afghan capital.
AP880325-0048 	X	Delays in Illinois Medicaid payments could force private residential-care facilities to evict hundreds of mentally retarded patients in the coming months, officials say. ``If nothing changes, we will see 50 to 1,500 people discharged from community residential centers throughout the state,'' said Peter Mule, director of the Riverside oundation, a home for retarded adults in Lincolnshire. Earlier this week Riverside received a reimbursement check from the state Department of Public Aid for December, but is still owed at least $250,000 for care provided since then, Mule said. Another non-profit agency, Clearbrook Center in suburban Rolling Meadows, will have to close within three months if $446,000 owed by the state can't be found elsewhere, center president Guerin Fischer said. Reimbursements are slow now, and they're bound to get worse, said Edward Duffy, state public aid director. ``I'm not choosing to do this, I'm running out of money,'' he said. Duffy said because the General Assembly underfunded the Medicaid program by $159 million last year, reimbursement money will run out. Requests received after April 15 won't be paid until July, Duffy said. ``We're working along with banks to help these agencies get credit lines,'' Duffy said. ``But the only real solution is more money.'' If the private homes are forced to evict their residents, the state would have to make room for them in already crowded facilities. ``We would have to put these people up on cots in gymnasiums,'' said David Devane, a spokesman for the Department of Mental Health. ``They would be without programs, without any treatment that is not life sustaining.'' Gov. James R. Thompson's proposed $22.2 billion budget for fiscal 1989 includes a $342 million increase for the Public Aid Department to pay past-due bills and reduce the delays in Medicaid reimbursements.
AP880617-0289 	X	The United States would be happy to consider negotiating a free-trade agreement with Japan along the lines of the treaty reached with Canada, Treasury Secretary James A. Baker III said Friday. While there are no current discussion about such a treaty, it would fit into this country's overall strategy to break down trade barriers wherever they exist, he said. ``We have a major trading relationship with Japan,'' Baker said. ``It (a free trade agreement) would be something that the United States would be pleased to consider if it were something that the government of Japan wanted to consider.'' Baker's comments came in a television interview with foreign journalists for broadcast outside the United States by the U.S. Information Agency. The session was a preview of the seven-nation economic summit opening Sunday in Toronto. President Reagan, addressing the annual conference of the USIA International Council, meantime, reiterated his belief in free trade while saying trade barriers of other countries are generating protectionist pressures in America. ``It damages the entire world economy when foreign countries fail to offer the same opportunity to American exports that America offers to their products,'' Reagan said. ``It is this basic sense of fairness that has helped generate protectionist pressures in America. Let me repeat protectionism, the closing of America's markets, is the wrong response; opening markets, that, I firmly believe, is the answer.'' Meanwhile, there appeared to be movement on another contentious trade dispute between Japan and the United States. U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter announced Friday that he was leaving immediately for Japan, saying a deal may be near on ending that nation's restrictions on beef imports. ``We certainly have not yet reached an agreement, but I'm persuaded that the news is sufficiently encouraging to justify a trip,'' Yeutter said. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said, ``We remain hopeful,'' but added, ``Until there's a deal, there's no deal.'' The Agriculture Department has placed the overall value of the Japanese beef market at $2 billion. A U.S.-Japan free-trade agreement would presumably be of substantial benefit to this country because U.S. officials for years have pressured the Japanese to open their markets to American products as a way of reducing the huge trade imbalance between the two nations. The Japanese ran up a trade surplus with the United States last year of $59.8 billion, more than one-third of this country's America's overall trade deficit of $170.3 billion. The U.S.-Canada pact now being considered by Congress and the Canadian Parliament would end all trade barriers within 10 years. Some critics have charged that specific trade pacts such as the U.S.-Canada agreement or the plan to eliminate all barriers between the 12-nation European Economic Community by 1992 pose risks of returning the world to the trade cartels of the 1930s, which worked to shrink trade rather than expanding it. But Baker disputed this, saying the United States saw any trade liberalization agreements as beneficial. He said America preferred to pursue reduction of trade barriers through the discussions being held under the auspices of the 96-nation General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. But he hinted that if those talks did not reach a successful conclusion, the United States would look to trade pacts with smaller groups of countries. Baker said the summit between President Reagan and other Western leaders would include a full-fledged discussion of Reagan's proposal to eliminate all farm subsidies by the year 2000. These subsidies are costing the major industrial countries $150 billion annually in higher government support payments and increased food costs to consumers. He acknowledged that the U.S. proposal to eliminate subsidies was facing intense opposition, with Washington hoping basically for a reiteration in Toronto of a pledge the industrialized nations made last month in Paris to press forward in negotiations on the issue. The U.S. delegation, led by Baker, had pressed for more specific language to adopt Reagan's call for a subsidy-free world in agricultural trade by a specific date. But Baker contended Friday that progress had been made in Paris. ``The fact that we are even discussing this very difficult problem of agricultural subsidies represents progress,'' he said. ``It is not going to be at all easy to move toward eliminating subsidies or reducing subsidies for any of us unless we are all able to go to our farmers and say the world is going to do this.'' European nations have argued that it is politically impossible to eliminate all farm subsidies and a proper compromise would be to reduce them, perhaps by cutting them in half. The United States is hoping to keep the pressure on so that hard bargaining to end protectionism in agriculture can take place at a Montreal trade meeting in December. The Montreal meeting will be a midterm review for the current round of global trade talks which were launched in 1986 in Uruguay and scheduled to end in 1990.
AP900611-0036 	X	Using too much water to douse the fire aboard the Mega Borg could sink the oil supertanker, but firefighters using foam to smother the flames today faced another problem, salvage experts say. ``You have to get on that ship to extinguish it,'' said Les Williams, whose Port Arthur, Texas, salvage company has fought nearly two dozen offshore oil fires. ``If the fire's below deck, it's like trying to walk on a hot skillet. You can't do that.'' The fire burned since Saturday aboard the 853-foot Norwegian ship, crippled in the Gulf of Mexico 57 miles southeast of Galveston. It started with an explosion in the engine room on Saturday; five blasts Sunday sent blazing crude oil from the tanker's 38-million-gallon cargo into the sea. ``That's a very hard fire to fight, there in the engine room like that,'' Rudy Teichmann of T&T Marine Salvage Inc. in Galveston said. ``It's all closed up and you can't get to it. ``They can't flood that engine room with water. That could sink the ship. It's a lot different than fighting a forest fire,'' said Teichmann. The Mega Borg already was listing. Its stern dropped 58 feet since the first explosion, indicating either the cargo had shifted or the ship was taking on water, the Coast Guard said. The aft deck was reported just 5 feet above the water today. About 30,000 gallons of foam has been shipped to the scene, the Coast Guard said. But using it entails firefighting at close range. Wiliams said the usual procedure is for two or three firefighters, wearing fire-retardant jumpsuits that are light enough to swim in, to board the tanker. Carrying a 3-inch diameter hose leading to foam pumps aboard a nearby boat, they target the fire's point of origin, he said. The hose, or ``wand,'' can shoot 5,000 gallons of foam per minute. Attempting the job is Smit American Salvage Inc., the U.S. division of a Rotterdam company. Smit has helped fight more than 100 tanker and oil rig fires, including blazes in the Persian Gulf during the Iran-Iraq war, company officials said. Steve Davis, captain of the 180-foot supply boat Tradewind, and his crew of four spent Sunday loading drums of chemical foam on board the boat to fight the Mega Borg fire. ``I would hate to see oil all over these beaches,'' Davis said as specialists from the Netherlands finished bolting high-powered pumps and nozzle connections to the ship's deck. Davis' boat is one of six from Pelican Island near Galveston that were hired to fight the fire. ``God willing and weather permitting _ that's the saying in salvage,'' said Rick Chianelli, salvage foreman for Smit American.
AP880706-0123 	X	A doctor accused of giving an anti-convulsion drug to pregnant women without their knowledge is fighting back with a $26 million slander lawsuit, saying the treatment was not secret and was aimed at helping his patients. Hospital officials have accused physicians Lawrence Lavine and Antonio Aldrete of secretly giving injections of the drug Dilantin to as many as 240 women _ nearly all of them pregnant _ as part of an improper experiment. But in a lawsuit Tuesday, Lavine accused Dr. Agnes Lattimer, medical director of Cook County Hospital, of slander for calling the Dilantin injections a violation of hospital policy and for labeling them unethical. ``They (Lavine and Aldrete) did what doctors do all the time .. . try to ensure the health of their patients. And because of the outcry, now the hospital is going to crucify them,'' said Lavine's attorney, Richard Brauer. Lattimer declined comment on the lawsuit Tuesday afternoon. ``I cannot discuss this issue since it is a legal matter,'' she said. Brauer said the doctors gave the Dilantin in the course of treating the women shortly before their babies were delivered and not as an experiment. He contended that informed written consent was obtained from every patient treated, while hospital officials have contended that many patients were given the drug without their knowledge or consent. The doctors, who face a disciplinary hearing July 18, administered the anti-convulsants for four months beginning last September, after receiving approval from the hospital's medical staff for a study involving 50 women undergoing emergency Caesarean section. One of the women allegedly given the drug at Cook County has filed a lawsuit against the Cook County Board, the hospital, the doctors and other staff members. Brauer said giving anti-convulsants to pregnant women with epilepsy just before they go into labor ``has been accepted medical procedure since 1938.'' Brauer said the doctors ``were aware of the medical literature (on Dilantin) and knew well in advance it would be helpful across the range of pregnancy,'' especially in cases where inadequate pre-natal care appeared likely to cause fetal distress from insufficient oxygen at delivery. Because of the frequency of fetal distress, he said, the rate of infant mortality at Cook County was 3{ times higher than in the general population. ``And it became so obvious the babies were born healthier, the mothers suffered less ... that instead of risking the health of their patients, they used the anti-convulsants where they were appropriate,'' he said. After media reports on the practice in late May, Lattimer said the doctors had gone beyond the scope of the experiment. A week later, she told the Chicago Sun-Times, ``It was wrong for the physicians to violate the ethical principles as well as the rules and regulations of the hospital.''
AP880703-0004 	X	A strong earthquake shook northern Taiwan on Sunday. Police said it unleashed rockslides that injured 13 people. They said the injured people were hit by falling rocks at three waterfall tourist sites in suburban Taipei. The quake, measuring 5.5 on the Richter scale, set off rock avalanches in an area covering 1,200 square yards, authorities said. The injured, who were all Taiwanese, were taken to a hospital, police said. One was reported to be in serious condition, and the others suffered only minor injuries. The Central Weather Bureau placed the epicenter of the early-afternoon earthquake in Sanchi, a coastal village about 10 miles north of Taipei. The earthquake was felt in the capital, where residents reported their houses shook violently, the bureau said. The Richter scale measures ground motion as recorded on seismographs. Every increase of one number means a ten-fold increase in intensity. An earthquake of magnitude 5 can cause serious damage in a populated area, and one of magnitude 6 can cause severe damage.
AP880602-0043 	X	Leonard didn't stand tall when he patrolled his owner's car lot office, but Reggie Roberts says the 7-foot-long boa constrictor was the best guard he ever had. Somebody broke the office window Sunday, and Leonard is gone. ``I'm just 99 percent sure somebody stole my snake,'' Roberts said Wednesday. ``I don't know why they did it.'' Roberts, who owns T.R. Roberts Motors, is offering a $100 reward for the return of his pet reptile. ``I won't ask any questions,'' he said. ``I just want my snake back. I miss the little fellow.'' He hopes Leonard will be found. The ``Beware! Guard Snake on Duty'' sign remains posted on the business' door. Leonard was kept in a temperature-controlled glass showcase during the day so as not to scare customers. But at night the creature, which Roberts describes as ``just a big baby,'' was given the run of the office. Roberts bought the snake, who is about 8 years old, when the previous owner's landlady objected to Leonard as a tenant. He's had the snake nearly a year. ``I've had him long enough to get good and attached to him,'' Roberts said.
AP901218-0254 	X	The Federated and Allied department stores, which have been operating under bankruptcy court protection for nearly a year, said Tuesday they lost $86.7 million in the three months ending Nov. 3. The companies called the figure a sign of improved performance in the face of a weakening economy and lower-than-expected sales. They lost $92.5 million in the same period last year before they sought refuge from creditors. Federated Department Stores Inc. said total sales for Bloomingdale's, Lazarus and its three other store chains fell 6.2 percent to $1.1 billion for the quarter. Allied Stores Corp. said sales for its four store chains fell 2.8 percent to $624 million. For the nine months ending Nov. 3, Federated and Allied said they lost $312.6 million, a lower figure than the $330.1 million they lost in the year-earlier period. Federated said sales fell 5.3 percent to $3.1 billion for the first nine months of the year. Allied, whose chains include The Bon Marche and Jordan Marsh, said sales fell 2.4 percent to $1.7 billion. Federated and Allied sought protection from creditors Jan. 15 because of inability to service $7.7 billion in debts accrued when they were taken over by the Campeau Corp. of Canada in the 1980s. A bankruptcy court has given them until February to file a reorganization plan. After that time, creditors may propose their own plans. Individually, Federated lost $57.8 million during the quarter, 14 percent above the $50.7 million it lost in the same period last year. Allied lost $28.9 million, 30 percent below its $41.8 million third-quarter loss last year. ``The consumer has not demonstrated a great deal of faith in the nation's near-term economic future, and there is little indication that this will change significantly in the closing weeks of the year,'' Federated and Allied chairman and chief executive officer Allen Questrom said. ``Still, we expect our earnings from operations will be consistent with our plans for the season.''
AP880820-0102 	X	The Centers for Disease Control disputes a study by the Hudson Institute that the number of Americans infected with the deadly AIDS virus is actually twice the official estimate. In a study released Friday, the Hudson Institute said that up to 3 million Americans are infected by the AIDS virus, an estimate that is far above the calculation by CDC, the primary federal agency monitoring the spread of AIDS. Kevin R. Hopkins, a Hudson mathematician, said his study uses ``realistic'' assumptions not used by the CDC and, as a result, his estimate is closer to the true number of Americans infected by the human immunodeficiency virus which causes AIDS. ``The actual number of people carrying the HIV virus in the United States (at the end of 1987) was not the 900,000 to 1.4 million the official sources estimate, but probably more than twice that number,'' the Hudson report said. ``There were between 2 and 3 million people infected with the AIDS virus, with the most likely total of infections probably close to 2.4 million,'' the report said. Dr. Timothy Dondero, chief of a CDC branch studying the spread of AIDS, quickly disputed the claim, however. In a telephone interview from the CDC headquarters in Atlanta, Dondero said he and his staff reviewed the Hudson study and the methods used and said, ``We do not feel a change in our data is appropriate.'' He said that for the Hudson model to be correct, about 2 percent of the young adult population in the United States would have to be infected with HIV. Yet, he said, ``their figures are inconsistently high within segments of populations for which there are test results.'' Dondero said tests from hospital patients, military recruits and prisoners show HIV infection rates of less than 1 percent _ 0.2 percent to 0.66 percent _ among young adults. Hopkins admitted, ``We're all in a guessing game'' when it comes to estimating the number of people infected with the AIDS virus. Nonetheless, he said he believed the Hudson method is a more realistic model or mathematical estimate of the situation. ``The CDC may be right and we may be wrong,'' Hopkins said. ``Until a national seroprevalence test is conducted, we will not know. ... The main conclusion is that we cannot be complacent about this disease.'' The study by Hudson, a privately financed public policy research organization with headquarters in Indianapolis, used basic CDC data on the number of AIDS cases. But Hopkins said Hudson used different computer models and more sophisticated statistical analysis techniques to estimate the rate of HIV infections. Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome, which is caused by the HIV virus, is the end stage of the disease and may not develop for years after a person is infected with the virus. But an infected person can spread the virus before developing AIDS. For this reason, experts are attempting to estimate the rate of infection in order to gauge the future extent of the epidemic. HIV infection is determined by a blood test which identifies antibodies in blood serum. A person with such antibodies is known as seropositive. Hopkins said the Hudson study also estimated that the number of heterosexuals infected by the virus may be three times higher than CDC estimates. The CDC says the chief victims of AIDS, a contagious disease that attacks the body's immune system, have been homosexual men and intravenous drug users. The Hudson study estimates that of the 850,000 to 1.4 million heterosexuals infected with the HIV virus, between 200,000 and 500,000 are those who do not use drugs. ``There are vastly more heterosexuals infected today,'' said Hopkins. ``A breakout into the non-monogamous population is unavoidable.'' The CDC has estimated that the AIDS virus has infected only 80,000 to 165,000 of the non-drug-using heterosexual population. The Hudson report said about 118,000 of the heterosexuals infected are ``mainstream'' population members. ``They are not poor, and they are not IV drug users,'' Hudson said. ``But they are nonetheless carriers of the virus and, through their sexual contacts, can proceed to spread the disease to others of their same class.'' The CDC says that as of Aug. 15, 1988, AIDS had been diagnosed in 70,702 Americans, of whom more than half, or 39,898, have died since June 1, 1981. No one is known to have recovered from AIDS.
AP881107-0068 	X	Students at Spelman College, a black women's school, should take the fruits of their education back to their communities and help the poor, the school's new president said at her inauguration. ``If we do nothing to improve our world, then we cannot call ourselves educated women,'' Johnetta B. Cole said Sunday. ``How can we call ourselves either educated or leaders if we turn away from the very reality that a third of black America lives in poverty? ``We must build sturdy black bridges into the very communities from which we have come. For if we do not build those bridges, then we will surely drown in our own selfishness.'' Ms. Cole, first black woman president of the 107-year-old liberal arts college, was inaugurated Sunday although she has been at the school since July 1987. Her speech wrapped up a weekend that included the announcement of a $20 million gift to the school from entertainer Bill Cosby. One of Cosby's daughters attended Spelman, and episodes of his hit TV series, ``The Cosby Show,'' have been filmed there. The donation will be used mostly to construct an academic center, which will double the college's classroom space. About $8 million will go to Spelman's endowment, currently at $42 million.
AP881028-0318 	X	Share prices rose Friday in a lackluster session on the London Stock Exchange. The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index rose 6.3 points, or 0.34 percent, to 1,858.4. Volume was 482.7 million shares, compared with the 593.5 million shares traded Thursday. Dealers said the market appeared to be resting after a fitful week of watching and waiting for an array of economic indicators. However, market analysts contended that the underlying tone of the market remained firm after Thursday's surprise narrowing of the British current account deficit to 560 million pounds, or $989 million, in September, less than half its August level. The Financial Times 30-share index rose 6.3 points to 1,508.9. The Financial Times 500-share index closed at 1,056.99, up 3.51.
AP900410-0217 	X	The dollar drifted fractionally lower against most key currencies in European trading Tuesday afternoon. Gold prices fell. Late in London's trading day, the dollar was quoted at 1.6900 West German marks, down from 1.6923 marks late Monday. In Tokyo, the dollar climbed 1.70 yen to a closing 158.15 yen on Tuesday. Later, in London, it was quoted at 158.60 yen. The dollar held on to most of its overnight gains against the yen, a reflection of market expectations that the Japanese currency will remain under pressure without significant action on the interest rate front, or without clear signals that the Group of Seven nations are intent on supporting the yen. Finance officials from the seven countries met in Paris over the weekend. The G-7 includes Britain, Canada, France, Italy, Japan, West Germany and the United States. The dollar gained against the British pound which was quoted late Tuesday at $1.6345, compared with $1.6397 late Monday. Other dollar rates late in Europe compared with late Monday's levels were: 1.4955 Swiss francs, down from 1.4960; 5.6750 French francs, down from 5.6805; 1.9030 Dutch guilders, down from 1.9043; 1,240.00 Italian lire, down from 1,242.00; and 1.1613 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1615. Gold traded in London at a late bid price of $375.15 a troy ounce, down from $375.50 late Monday. In Zurich, the bid price was $375.25, down from $376.25 late Monday. Earlier in Hong Kong, gold fell $2.16 an ounce to close at a bid of $376.97. Silver bullion traded in London at a late bid price of $5.13 a troy ounce, down from late Monday's bid of $5.14.
AP901004-0209 	X	Apple Computer Inc. has entered into negotiations with Toshiba Corp. to develop lower-priced computers, Toshiba officials confirmed Thursday. The announcement comes days after Japan's Sony Corp. said it is discussing forging business ties with Cupertino, Calif.-based Apple, one of the leading U.S. personal computer makers. Toshiba spokesman Masao Mochizuki said Apple recently proposed the alliance, but he declined to elaborate. Analysts say Apple is seeking to diversify its product line and lower prices. ``Apple's computer is good in performance, but is rather expensive at present, so Apple is trying to develop new mass-production models to expand its market shares in Japan,'' said Yasumichi Satoh, an analyst with Sanyo Investment Management Co. Toshiba, a leading Japanese electric machinery maker, currently supplies Apple with semiconductors for its personal computers. According to Kyodo News Service, Apple is discussing an agreement under which Sony would make personal computers in Japan to be marketed under Apple's name. Sony now produces computer disk drives and displays for Apple Computer. At a board meeting held in Tokyo last week, Apple Chief Executive officver John Sculley told reporters that his company is bent on expanding its limited presence in Japan.
AP880812-0294 	X	British publisher Robert Maxwell said Friday he will launch a $2.1 billion cash tender offer for Macmillan Inc. next week, but made clear his main interest is acquiring its information services business. Macmillan already is the subject of a $1.9 billion bid from Robert M. Bass Group Inc., a Texas-based investment group. In a letter to Macmillan, Maxwell said he would drop his $80-a-share tender offer if Macmillan would sell him the information company, which Macmillan proposed to separate from its publishing business in a corporate restructuring. Maxwell said his Maxwell Communications Corp. PLC would be willing to pay ``not less than $1.1 billion'' in cash for the information business, noting that Macmillan's investment bankers had valued it at ``a range of $800 million to slightly in excess of $1 billion.'' In the letter, Maxwell also told Macmillan Chairman Edward P. Evans he was ``willing to explore other forms of transactions with you'' that would allow current shareholders to continue to hold a significant stake in the company. Maxwell also reitereated he wanted to retain Macmillan management. Macmillan declined to comment on Maxwell's proposals. On Wall Street, the price of Macmillan stock rose $1.50 a share to $83.25, indicating investors expected the bidding to escalate. ``Some people suggested Maxwell isn't serious, but by launching a tender offer at $80 a share on Monday, we see he is serious,'' said Bert Boksen, who follows the publishing business for the brokerage Raymond James & Associates in St. Petersburg, Fla. But Boksen said by making the alternate suggestion that he be sold the information assets, Maxwell ``identified the piece he is most interested in.'' ``I think Macmillan is backed up against the wall and will try to find a white knight,'' he said. He said Macmillan could be worth $90 a share. The overture from Maxwell came only three days before a scheduled court hearing in Delaware on whether Macmillan should be allowed to proceed with its proposed restructuring. The restructuring, announced in late May, would split the company into separate publishing and information services concerns and pay shareholders a special dividend of $52.35 a share in cash. That plan was advanced after the Bass Group proposed to pay $64 a share for the Macmillan stock it did not already own. The Bass Group subsequently sweetened its offer twice, and launched its own tender offer for Macmillan at $75 a share. The Bass Group won an order from Delaware Chancery Court blocking Macmillan from proceeding with its restructuring. Macmillan appealed the decision to Delaware Supreme Court, which scheduled a hearing for Monday. Maxwell disclosed his interest in Macmillan in mid-July, saying he would be interested in paying $80 a share for its 25.9 million shares in a friendly transaction. A Maxwell spokesman said Friday that the tender offer at that price would commence on Monday. It is contingent on dropping the restructuring plan, among other things, but Maxwell said it is not conditioned upon obtaining necessary financing. Late last month, the Macmillan board rejected the $75 a share offer from Bass as inadequate, but took no position on the Maxwell proposal. Macmillan spokesman David Jackson refused Friday to comment on whether the board has since met to discuss the Maxwell proposal, or anything else. Maxwell has vowed to make Maxwell Communications one of the world's biggest media and communications businesses. Through that company and Pergamon Press, Maxwell controls the Mirror Group of newspapers in Great Britain, is one of America's largest printers of magazines and catlogues and has extensive holdings in publishing academic and scientific journals.
AP900619-0195 	X	The Air Force and Northrop Corp. lifted the B-2 stealth bomber secrecy curtain another notch Tuesday, allowing reporters a peek at the sprawling factory where the radar-dodging planes are built. The 800,000-square-foot plant where Northrop performs final assembly from parts provided by itself, Boeing, LTV and other subcontractors was far quieter than a normal aerospace plant. Part of the technology that hides the B-2 from radar is the plane's smooth surface, which is achieved by using a minimum of rivets, nuts and bolts. That in turn makes for an eerily quiet manufacturing process. The second through fifth of the flying wings _ their graphite skins covering a honeycomb composite structure _ could be seen on their assembly lines in the plant in the desert city north of Los Angeles. Flanking them were terminals to a computer system whose sophistication Northrop says far exceeds any ever used to build a plane. Company officials predicted it will find wide use in civilian manufacturing. The first B-2 is performing beyond expectations in initial flight testing, completing stability control, in-flight refueling, landings and other tests with few problems, said Bruce Hinds, Northrop's chief test pilot. ``The airplane is maturing and we're able to operate efficiently much earlier than we thought,'' he said. The plane, which Hinds said can turn sharply _ more like a fighter than a bomber _ has been taken up to 35,000 feet and flown at 373 mph. It has won praise from all the pilots who have flown it, Hinds said. The tour came amid continuing efforts in Congress to kill the B-2, which critics contend is far too expensive, especially as the Cold War is ending. If the program were stopped with the construction of 15 planes, as some favor, construction costs would be $35.4 billion. Air Force Maj. Gen. Richard M. Scofield, the B-2 program director, said 15 planes would not be enough to provide a significant military deterrent. Defense Secretary Dick Cheney has suggested building 75 B-2s, which would bring the total cost of the bombers to $62.4 billion. Ron Fraser, an analyst for the dovish Center for Defense Information in Washington, said the real cost of building 75 planes would be more than $110 billion, including $48 billion to operate and support the bombers. ``So cutting it off now, the savings are huge,'' Fraser said. ``It's a bomber we don't need at any price and the price is pretty darn stiff.'' Northrop Chief Executive Kent Kresa and Scofield said such concerns were shortsighted and that the United States should not give up on a plane that will be useful decades into the 21st century. They also argued that the manned bomber provides a needed complement to a U.S. defense system that includes nuclear armed submarines and land-based nuclear missiles. Kresa and Scofield disputed reports that stealth technology could be counteracted by some radar systems. One of those systems, reportedly in Australia, was among 40 supposed stealth-busting techniques that the bomber was tested against, Scofield said. He said the test showed the system had as much chance of locating a stealth bomber as an individual equipped with a flashlight would have of finding one person among a crowd of thousands in the Rose Bowl at night. Marion McHugh, vice president of operations for Northrop's B-2 division, said 11 of the bombers are now 50 percent or more complete. The 10th and 11th will take about 1.2 million worker hours to construct. That's compared to 3.5 million for the first bomber, which McHugh acknowledged took substantially longer to build than anticipated. But he said officials are happy with the progress being made.
AP900629-0083 	X	Here is a transcript of President Bush's news conference Friday at the White House: BUSH: Good morning everybody. And I'm leaving in a few hours and will be gone from Washington for several days. Congress is about to close up shop for the 4th of July holidays and so I thought it would be a good idea to bring you up to date on a wide array of current topics and respond to your questions. During the next two weeks the US will join its allies in considering a number of crucial political security and international economic issues. And seldom in the last 40 years have such questions had such direct impact on the lives of all Americans. Today in the US we are carefully examining the historic changes in Eastern Europe, the size of our military forces, our ability to compete in world markets, the assistance that we provide to help emerging democracies, and the size and priorities of our own budget and how to continue the 90 months of economic expansion that we've enjoyed. These issues are not abstract. Every American has a stake in how we as a nation address these very complex questions. On July 5th and 6th in London the NATO alliance will gather to forge a new direction for the future. And at the Houston economic summit we will press for progress in the Uruguay Round of trade negotiations, discuss economic support for various countries, and review progress on the environment. These international concerns are reflected in many of the decisions I made just this week. First, we are doing what is necessary to assure continuation of the economic expansion, now in its 90th month, and we want to keep it going. We now estimate a deficit of over $150 billion in fiscal 1991, not counting the costs of the savings and loan cleanup. And this means that unless Congress acts, there will be a cutoff in October of nearly $100 billion in government services under the sequester provisions of the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings. The potential results are Draconian cuts in defense, student grants and a wide array of other necessary domestic services, and to avoid this, tough decisions must be made. And leadership is needed, and that is exactly what administration officials are seeking to provide and indeed, in these talks, I believe are providing. The budget negotiations now under way are a make-or-break effort at responsible government. The congressional budgeting process must succeed and the negotiators are facing tough questions about where to make cuts and where to raise the revenues, and these are not decisions that anyone relishes. They are decisions that Democrats and Republicans alike have got to face with candor and courage. And frankly, I believe that ultimately good politics is rooted in good government, and I'm optimistic that we can get a budget agreement legislated which not only tells the world that America puts its fiscal house in order, but also will garner the full support of the American people. Secondly, this week we reached an agreement with the Japanese on (the) Structural Impediments Initiative that's going to help to open markets and create new opportunities for business and commerce. Next, we took an important step toward increasing jobs, opportunity, and economic prosperity throughout our own hemisphere _ Enterprise for the Americas, an innovative and I think visionary plan for increased trade and investment with Latin America and the Caribbean, and the response from south of our border has been overwhelmingly positive. And this included a new proposal on official debt in the hemisphere which will help our neighbors in Latin America and the Caribbean resume the process of growth. We developed a plan for protecting our coastal resources _ this OCS decision _ while also endeavoring to protect energy independence. And as I leave for the 4th of July holiday, and then from there to the NATO summit, and then to the Houston economic summit, I just wanted to assure you that the America _ America will squarely face the challenges of leadership that are before us, both domestically and in terms of international affairs. Q. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you about your reversal on ``no new taxes.'' Do you consider that a betrayal of your promise, and what do you say to Republicans who complain that you've robbed them of the same campaign issue that helped get you elected? BUSH: Well, I don't. I think what I consider it is a necessary step to get stalled budget negotiations moving. And I am very encouraged with the approach taken now by Republicans and Democrats in this _ in these important discussions that are going on. I'm not going to discuss details, what I'll accept and what I won't accept, but things are moving, and I think that much more important today is getting this deficit down, continuing economic expansion and employment in this country. So that's the way I'd respond to it. MORE
AP900214-0244 	X	Stocks finished slightly higher after a lackluster session on London's Stock Exchange Wednesday, as investors found little reason to buy. Dealers said the market appeared to be treading water, in anticipation of a barrage of British economic data and corporate earnings reports due to be released later in the week. Tuesday's news that Drexel Burnham Lambert Group Inc. filed for protection under U.S. bankruptcy law still overshadowed the market, dealers said. ``Any rise in the market will be short-lived,'' said the head of equities at a London firm. ``There's far too much concern on (the prospect for higher) interest rates and the possibility that New York will fall out of bed, sooner or later, over this Drexel thing.'' Although Wall Street got off to a healthy start, London traders said there wasn't any discernible leadership coming from New York. The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index was up 5.1 points, or 0.2 percent, at 2,298.3. The Financial Times 30-share index was up 4.3 points at 1,822.4. The Financial Times 500-share index rose 2.67 points to close at 1,253.05. Volume amounted to a modest 465.2 million shares, compared with 436.4 million shares Tuesday.
AP900606-0176 	X	President Bush on Wednesday tapped a dozen young professionals to spend the next year on special high-level government assignments as White House Fellows. The fellows, chosen from nearly 1,000 applicants, will begin their 12 months of government service on Sept. 1. A presidential commission helped make the final selections from 33 national finalists. They are the 26th class of fellows chosen since the high-level internship program was launched in 1964. They will work as special assistants to Bush's own staff, the vice president and members of the Cabinet. The new fellows are: _Andrew I. Batavia, 32, of Washington, a disability expert who directs the Health Services Research Program at the National Rehabilitation Hospital Research Center. _Samuel Dale Brownback, 33, of Topeka, Kan., the Kansas secretary of agriculture. _Robert Bruce Chess, 33, of Palo Alto, Calif., president and co-founder of Penederm, a biotechnology company. _Jody Ann Greenstone, 32, of Greenville, S.C., vice president in public finance of the Robinson-Humphrey Co., a subsidiary of Shearson Lehman Hutton. _Robert R. Grusky, 32, of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., a vice president in the investment banking division of Goldman, Sachs & Co. _Air Force Capt. Willie Arthur Gunn, 31, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., a circuit defense counsel defending service members in complex criminal cases in five Western states. _Air Force Maj. Randall Herman Kehl, 36, of Albuquerque, N.M., an attorney with the Judge Advocate General's office in Washington. _Navy Lt. Cmdr. John William Miller, 32, of Annapolis, Md., the head of the leadership section in the Naval Academy's Department of Leadership and Law. _Eric McLaren Phillips, 37, of Maplewood, N.J., a Guyanese-born district manager for AT&T International Communications Services. _Air Force Maj. Edward Augustus Rice Jr., 33, of Yellow Springs, Ohio, a manager in the Air Force's directorate of plans and operations in Washington. _Joseph E. Samora Jr., 34, of Albuquerque, who is chairman of the New Mexico Public Service Commission. _Kimberly Till, 34, of Prattville, Ala., an international management consultant with Bain & Co. in London. Appications for the 1991-92 program are available from the President's Commission on White House Fellowships, 712 Jackson Place, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20503.
AP881119-0091 	X	A Democratic senator called Saturday for President-elect George Bush to meet with congressional leaders prior to his inauguration to find ``common ground'' for fighting the deficit. Sen. Jim Sasser of Tennessee noted the declining dollar and the drop in the stock market since Bush's election, and said the world is waiting to see if the incoming president has a plan for reducing the country's massive federal deficit. ``Congress, like the financial markets and the Federal Reserve, is anxiously seeking a sign from the incoming administration that the era of ideological stalemate is over, and the era of realistic deficit reduction has begun,'' said Sasser, in the Democrats' response to President Reagan's weekly radio address. Reagan, in his broadcast, said the nation's factories are booming and farmers harvested more than the country could consume. He urged Americans on Thanksgiving to thank the Lord for ``peace, prosperity and freedom.'' Sasser said Democrats in Congress want to work with the new president for positive results ``but we can't wait for the next financial disaster before we again take the budget deficit seriously.'' ``And let me say to President-elect Bush: many of us in the Congress are experienced lip readers. We don't want new taxes any more than you do,'' said Sasser, addressing Bush's promise not to raise taxes. ``We stand ready to follow the new president's lead, so long as that leadership aims honestly and forthrightly at solving this country's number one economic problem,'' he said. Sasser proposed that a meeting of Bush with congressional leaders ``should aim specifically at getting to the common ground _ the objectives we all share _ with regard to fiscal policy.'' He said Bush also should give a fair hearing to the National Economic Commission set up to deal with the deficit and should get the Reagan administration to submit a realistic budget to Congress. ``Those are the kinds of meaningful actions that will command the confidence of the international financial community,'' Sasser said. ``They will help put to rest the rumors of early conflict between the Congress and the next president.''
AP900620-0150 	X	The elderly and students who are citizens of one country in the European Community at the end of 1991 will be able to live in any other EC nation if they wish, it was decided Wednesday. The decision by the 12 EC nations gives jobless nationals in the European Community the same rights as wage-earners. An elderly citizen who has dreamed of retiring in sunnier southern climates will be able to obtain a five-year, renewable residency permit in the EC country of his choice. The retiree must show only proof of health insurance and that he or she will not burden the adopted nation's social security system. And a student who can show proof of registration at a university or college in another EC nation as well as sufficient income will receive a one-year renewable residency permit. Those who are unemployed by choice and do not classify as being either elderly or a student will have to prove they have sufficient income not to need assistance from the social security system in their new country. The 12 EC members are Belgium, Denmark, France, West Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Spain and Portugal. In 1992, the nations will drop trade barriers among themselves to create a unified Euromarket. In Brussels Wednesday the 18 nations of Western Europe's two trading blocs began talks to pave the way for the so-called European Economic Space. The move would bring the six nations of the European Free Trade Association _ Austria, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden and Switzerland _ closer to the European Community. Frans Andriessen, an EC commissioner, said he hoped broad agreement would be reached near the end of this year and be fully implemented on Jan. 1, 1993, when the EC's single market comes into force.
AP880505-0164 	X	Preliminary results show that two of three joints on the redesigned space shuttle booster rocket did not leak during an April 22 qualifying test, a NASA official said today. Dave Mobley, NASA deputy project manager for the redesign effort, said that engineers have inspected the aft and center field joints and found both to be working as designed. Results of tests on the forward joint are expected Friday. Mobley said today that engineers found that the center field joint, which had an intentional flaw built into it for an April 22 test-firing at the Morton Thiokol plant 25 miles west of here, did its job. He said the center field joint flaw allowed superhot gases to reach insulation and the joint's O-ring, but the ring held. ``There was no damage to the O-ring at all,'' he said. ``There was no evidence the gas got past'' the ring. Failure of an O-ring seal is blamed for triggering the Jan. 28, 1986, explosion that destroyed the space shuttle Challenger and killed its seven-member crew. The booster tests are designed to evaluate the redesigned booster, which is made up of several sections that are joined together, and qualify the joints for use in an actual launch. Mobley also said engineers found no damage to the rocket's nozzle section. In a December test-firing, a redesigned boot ring on the section came apart. The April test used a boot ring that had proven reliable in the past. Mobley said engineering evaluations would be conducted late today on the redesigned booster's forward field joint, with results expected Friday. He noted that while thorough, results from the evaluations were tentative. A final report, based on more extensive study, isn't expected to be ready for several weeks, he said. Two more full-scale tests of the booster are planned for June and July, and the shuttle launch is tentatively set for late August or early September.
AP901222-0109 	X	Iraq asked the World Health Organization on Saturday to help free medicine and equipment to combat hepatitis, which Iraq claims contributed to the deaths of some children since U.N. trade sanctions began. The official Iraqi News Agency said a national committee against hepatitis sent a telegram saying the sanctions halted imports of ``the equipment and special tools to discover the hepatitis B virus and also the vaccine against it.'' The report, monitored in Nicosia, did not refer to a specific outbreak or epidemic, but said the sickness ``is considered a big health problem in Iraq, especially among children.'' Without providing figures on hepatitis cases, the report said the committee told officials at the Geneva-based U.N. agency that 2,042 children under 5 years old have died since the embargo began in August. Iraq blamed the deaths on shortages of baby food and medicine, and claimed many of those who died suffered from hepatitis. The embargo is meant to retaliate for Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait. Hepatitis B is one of five strains of the blood virus that can be prevented by vaccine. Serious cases of hepatitis can lead to liver problems. ``The committee called in the telegram on the World Health Organization to interfere immediately to release the food and medicine seige and release imported medicine, vaccine, equipment and tools to control the hepititis virus in Iraq,'' the news agency said. Western diplomats in Baghdad say Iraq has received 120 tons of medicine from humanitarian groups worldwide since mid-October. Most of the shipments were in exchange for Western hostages trapped by the Persian Gulf crisis. President Saddam Hussein decided Dec. 6 to free all foreigners. Iraq's Red Crescent, the Islamic equivalent of the Red Cross, announced recently it had received 22 tons of medical supplies from Italy and another 28 tons from the U.N. Children's Fund. But Irqai officials have said acute shortages exist in some areas, such as for polio vaccine and drugs to treat heart ailments.
AP900308-0009 	X	Papa looked very beautiful in his crimson robe, but there was a terrible draft in Westminster Abbey, wrote the little princess after her parents' coronation in 1937. The childhood essay of Queen Elizabeth II gets its first public showing beginning Friday in the Queen's Gallery, where royal treasures are displayed at Buckingham Palace. It's part of 271 exhibits called ``A Royal Miscellany'' showing through Jan. 13, 1991. The exhibition includes everything from clocks and jewelry to the embroidered linen overshirt worn by King Charles I as he knelt to the headsman's ax in 1649. Visitors can view a lock of French Emperor Napoleon Bonaparte's hair, a watercolor of Balmoral royal estate by Prince Charles, and a copy of the Mainz Psalter _ a 1457 German collection of prayers that was the first book printed in more than one color. Among the displays are the neat, proper letters of the 11-year-old princess Elizabeth. They are written in a lined exercise book that would have cost tuppence, four cents at that time. ``I thought it all very, very wonderful and I expect the Abbey did, too. The arches and beams at the top were covered with a sort of haze of wonder as Papa was crowned, at least I thought so,'' wrote the princess. Elizabeth, her sister Princess Margaret and their widowed grandmother Queen Mary had a grandstand view of the ceremony from a royal box in the abbey, where Elizabeth herself would be crowned in 1953. ``What struck me as being rather odd was that Grannie did not remember much of her own coronation. I should have thought that it would have stayed in her mind forever,'' Princess Elizabeth wrote. However, toward the end, the child found the service becoming ``rather boring'' as it was all prayers. ``Grannie and I were looking to see how many more pages to the end, and we turned one more and then I pointed to the word at the bottom of the page and it said `Finis.' We both smiled at each other and turned back to the service,'' she wrote. ``The princess was probably asked by her tutor to record her impressions of the coronation,'' said Oliver Everett, director of the Royal Library at Windsor Castle, the favorite royal residence 21 miles west of London. Everett, a former diplomat, selected the essay and 270 other items for the exhibition. ``The library is closed to the public, but the queen takes her guests there. As the castle is being rewired and repaired, guests cannot be shown round so we took the opportunity to send some interesting things to the gallery,'' Everett said in an interview at Wednesday's preview. Even the prophetic thoughts of King George III after the British defeat by the American colonists in 1781 are displayed: ``America is lost! Must we fall beneath this blow?'' he wrote. But he was consoled by the thought that ``it is to be hoped we shall reap more advantages from their trade as friends than ever we could derive from them as Colonies.''
AP900303-0127 	X	The head of China's Communist Party says the massacre of protesters in Tiananmen Square last June should not stand in the way of economic and cultural cooperation with the United States. ``If both sides face realities and make efforts to remove the misunderstandings, which have not been created by us, we will have broad prospects in the future,'' Jiang Zemin, general secretary of the Chinese Communist Party, told U.S. News & World Report. ``I suggest that we look forward and try to find common ground,'' he said in the interview, appearing in the March 12 issue. ``In such fields as economic exchanges, cultural contacts and other areas there is still a lot of room for more cooperation.'' But Jiang emphasized: ``We do not regret, or criticize ourselves for the way we handle, the Tiananmen event. ``We believe it to be an internal affair while the U.S. is saying that we have gone against U.S. values and the American view of human rights.'' Jiang said continuing tensions with the United States resulted from ``a big misunderstanding'' created by inaccurate media accounts and a limited perspective on the part of the U.S. government and people. Jiang, who became party chief last June amid international condemnation of the Chinese government's actions, said his government would continue to welcome foreign investment and open the country to the outside world. ``Because business is not based only on one track, you have to take the long-term view,'' said Jiang. Continued economic development in his country would help change U.S. and international opinion of China, he said. The government also would gradually move away from the egalitarianism associated with socialist economic enterprises, Jiang said, by stepping up its policy of incentive and bonus pay. Jiang said it was contradictory for the United States to criticize China's use of troops in Tiananmen Square while saying it understood why the Soviet Union sent troops to quell riots between ethnic groups in Azerbaijan and Armenia. Additionally, he criticized the U.S. invasion of Panama and capture of Manuel Noriega as ``a manifestation of power politics.''
AP900219-0122 	X	Authorities moved to placate separatist Moslem militants Monday by dissolving the legislative assembly of Jammu-Kashmir state and acknowledging that the 1987 polls in which it was elected might have been rigged. Also Monday, at least three people were killed and six injured in confrontations between security forces and Moslem protesters agitating for the secession of the Kashmir valley from Hindu-majority India. State Gov. Jagmohan said the Jammu-Kashmir assembly was being dissolved because it had ``lost its representative character.'' The move clears the way for new elections to the assembly, which could form the basis for making peace overtures to the militants. Many of the militants say they were members of political parties earlier, and began agitating for an independent nation after what they claim was widespread rigging during the 1987 elections. ``It has been alleged that in 1987 some vested interests had rigged the election,'' Jagmohan said in a statement issued in Srinagar. In those elections, Farooq Abdullah was voted the chief minister, the top elected post in the state administration, for a five-year term. Abdullah resigned from the post on Jan. 19 to protest the appointment of Jagmohan as governor of the state. Jagmohan, a Hindu who uses one name, has said that quelling militant violence and holding new elections is the only way to defuse the separatist movement in the Moslem-majority state. Police reported at least three deaths Monday as Moslem crowds violated curfew orders in two towns in the valley. Police officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said two people were killed and six injured when police opened fire to control a rioting mob in the town of Bijbehara, 30 miles southeast of Srinagar. One person was killed in the town of Shopian, 33 miles south of Srinagar, in another incident of police firing, they said. The deaths raise to at least 103 the number of people killed since authorities launched a crackdown on the Moslem movement on Jan. 20. Most of the victims have been protesters killed in police firing on curfew violators. The movement for secession of Kashmir from India is at least four decades old, but has flared in recent months. The state of Jammu-Kashmir, which includes the valley and the plains of Jammu to the south, is India's only Moslem-majority state. India and Pakistan have both claimed Kashmir since the Indian subcontinent was divided along religious lines after gaining independence from Britain in 1947. The countries have fought two wars over Kashmir, and Pakistan occupies a slice of the valley. A U.N.-monitored cease-fire line divides the valley into Indian and Pakistani sectors. India accuses Pakistan of fomenting the trouble in Kashmir. Islamabad denies the charge but says the Kashmri people have a right to self-determination. About 64 percent of Jammu-Kashmir's 6 million people are Moslem. Nationwide, Moslems comprise 12 percent of the 880 million population. Hindus make up 82 percent.
AP901203-0262 	X	Employees were low-key and passengers seemed mostly oblivious Monday after the parent of Continental Airlines filed for protection under federal bankruptcy laws for the second time in seven years. ``I'm not worried as long as I can get home today,'' Gwendolyn Currie, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., said. Her flight to New Orleans was detoured to Houston because of bad weather and she was among the crowd waiting for Continental flights at Houston Intercontinental Airport's Terminal C, the Houston-based airline's main hub. ``I just hope to get out of here today,'' she said. ``I hope I still have a way to get back,'' said Frank Dow, who was heading to Lafayette, La., from Houston. Some Continental employees were handed a printed message about the filing when they reported to work Monday morning and a text of the announcement was made availabletto others on computer monitors at passenger check-in gates. Passenger reaction to the announcement was minimal, gate attendants said, probably because so few people knew of it. The airline company said it intended to run normally despite the Chapter 11 filing in a federal bankruptcy court in Delaware, where Continental is incorporated. ``The impact is zero,'' said one flight officer, who declined to be identified, saying employees are told to not speak with reporters. ``It's business as usual. ``Look around,'' he said, pointing to aircraft taxiing and passengers boarding. ``I don't have any anxiety.'' ``This is something external, with the fuel prices,'' a flight attendant with him said. ``It's all out of our control and there's very little I can do. I think it's important the public recognizes this is an administrative action. That's what's important. If you didn't watch the news, you would never know.'' The flight officer, who said he went through the 1983 bankruptcy filing when flights were halted, employees laid off and passengers stranded, noted the chaos of that time was absent on Monday. ``It's very relaxed,'' he said. ``This was a whole different background.'' Capt. Robert Finley, a senior pilot at Continental, said he was among four top pilots to meet with airline chairman and president Hollis Harris on Thursday to discuss the situation. ``Continental Airlines is going to wind up surviving and being a leader in the industry,'' Finley said. ``Mr. Harris is a very positive, people-oriented person which is something we haven't known a lot of around Continental for awhile. ``It seems like a breath of fresh air to see a man like him in that job. If anyone can pull us through these difficult times - where fuel costs are skyrocketing and all costs are elevating at an enormous rate while the fares are still being depressed and the fare wars are going on - I think Mr. Harris is the guy who can do it.'' Finley said he was not nervous about his future. ``I went through the last one,'' he said. ``That one made me nervous. But this I feel is necessary and is a positive move to strengthen the company so we can move forward.'' ``If I was an employee, I'd really be concerned,'' passenger Robert Cloud of Houston said. Cloud was a reluctant Continental passenger and was sent to the airline on Monday by United Airlines when his United flight was canceled. ``I had heard they were having problems,'' he said while waiting to fly to San Francisco and then Bangkok. ``It's one of those hazards.'' ``I can just go to another airline,'' said Archie Buchanan, flying to Phoenix. ``Filing Chapter 11 doesn't normally mean you're going to quit flying - at least for the short term.'' ``I think we're too tired right now to worry,'' Beverly Zigal, of Austin, who was heading for Belize, Central America. ``Hopefully, we'll get back. It'll be interesting to see what transpires in the next few days. I hope it hits the newspapers down there but we'll be off on some remote island fishing.'' ``As long as we get there, we'll probably get back,'' added her companion, Jane Bessent. ``I've been through it three times before with other carriers,'' said one Continental flight officer, who refused to provide his name but said he was based in Newark. `You position yourself. It's a little bit of a surprise and it's kind of strange to hear this from a reporter.''
AP881222-0138 	X	The Commerce Department reported Thursday that orders for ``big ticket'' durable goods, excluding the volatile defense category, climbed 1.8 percent in November, a healthy increase which economists took as a sign of continued strength in the new year. When defense orders are included, total durable goods orders edged up only 0.1 percent in November to a seasonally adjusted $122.89 billion. That followed a giant 2.9 percent rise in October. The overall figure was inflated by a big jump in military orders in October and then depressed when military orders returned to more normal levels last month. Discounting the swings in defense, orders in the civilian category climbed 1.8 percent in November, the best showing since a 5.2 percent August increase. Civilian orders had risen only 0.2 percent in October. Analysts said they were impressed by the strength in civilian orders, saying the orders should keep U.S. plants humming through the first half of 1989. ``This was an impressive gain and it should pretty much insure that the economy will keep growing next year,'' said Michael Evans, head of a Washington forecasting firm. Analysts were particularly impressed with a 2.6 percent rise in orders for business capital goods, which rose to $35.5 billion. This industry is closely watched for signals of business intentions to expand and modernize. It was the first increase in this category after two consecutive monthly declines and eased fears that business investment could be tapering off. ``With business investment bouncing back up, there is a lot less reason to worry about next year,'' said David Wyss, an economist with Data Resources Inc. ``On the whole, things look pretty good, with strong shipments and strong orders promising continued growth.'' The manufacturing sector has been a driving force in the economy this year as U.S. companies have benefited from a weaker dollar which has boosted overseas sales. The boom in exports has in turn led to a surge in investment spending as businesses rushed to expanded production facilities. For November, much of the strength in durable goods _ items expected to last at least three years _ came from an 8.1 percent rise in demand for electrical machinery, which climbed to $20.5 billion. Much of this increase reflected rising demand for defense communications equipment. Total defense orders, however, fell by 17.6 percent to $8.81 billion following a 43.1 percent surge in October. The defense category is highly erratic, depending on when big government contracts are signed. Transportation orders fell 6.3 percent to $32.69 billion as virtually all categories except civilian aircraft suffered setbacks. Orders for non-electrical machinery edged down 0.5 percent to $21.05 billion, the third consecutive decline. Orders for primary metals rose 0.8 percent to $12.52 billion and now stand 11.4 percent higher than they were a year ago. Shipments of durable goods increased 1 percent to $119.6 billion in November, following a 0.3 percent advance in October.
AP880722-0214 	X	As shippers and other users probably suspected, the July drought dried up the Mississippi and Ohio rivers to all-time lows and severely depressed flow in the Missouri, the U.S. Geological Survey said Friday. The survey's hydrogologists said the Mississippi at Keokuk, Iowa, averaged 10.5 billion gallons per day for the period July 1 through July 15, 74 percent below normal and 13 percent below the lowest previous July in 1936. At Vicksburg, Miss., the river averaged 93 billion gallons per day, 66 percent below normal and 22 percent below the 1934 record for the period. At Louisville, Ky., the Ohio averaged 5 billion gallons per day, 84 percent below normal and 3 percent under the smallest previous July flow recorded in 1930. The flow of the Missouri at Hermann, Mo., was 28.4 billion gallons per day, 42 percent below normal but still 31 percent above the July low-water record of 1936. The St. Lawrence River at Massena, N.Y. was still in the normal range, averaging 157 billion gallons per day or 11 percent below the normal mark. That was 21 percent higher than the July 1964 low-water record.
AP900710-0166 	X	A manufacturer of outdoor picnic equipment on Tuesday recalled hoses for 30,000 smoker-cookers because of possible fire hazards. The Coleman Co., Inc. recalled the hoses that connect to the propane gas tanks of its ``Cookin' Machines'' because they may loosen from the valve connection after repeated use, said the Consumer Product Safety Commission. ``If the hose should loosen when the valve is turned on, fuel may leak from the hose and could present a risk of personal injury or property damage if ignited,'' the agency said. There have been at least five reported incidents of loosened hoses causing fire damage, said the CPSC. The potentially hazardous hoses are installed on cookers manufactured by the Kansas-based company between November 1987 and March 1989. Consumers should discontinue use of the cookers immediately and contact Coleman at 1-800-835-3278 for instructions on free replacement of the hoses.
AP880729-0275 	X	American Health Cos. Inc., parent of Diet Center Inc., a franchiser of diet centers in North America, has agreed to be acquired for $157 million by two investor groups. The company said Thursday the groups, CDI Holdings Inc. and DC Acquisition Corp., will pay $22.50 per share to acquire about 6.95 million shares of American Health stock. American Health's common stock rose 25 cents in over-the-counter trading Thursday, closing at $22 a share. The sale was announced Thursday after a meeting of American Health's board of directors in Salt Lake City. American Health spokesman Jim Liljenquist declined to discuss why the company agreed to the proposal. Diet Center is a leading franchiser of diet and nutrition centers, with about 2,300 outlets in the United States and Canada. Separately, American Health said Thursday it earned $3.5 million in the first quarter of its fiscal year. The profit in the three months ended June 30 was 16 percent higher than the $3 million earned in the opening quarter of last year.
AP880801-0145 	X	Drunken-driving experts and bus safety officials will join witnesses to a bus crash that killed 27 people when testimony gets under way Tuesday in a National Transportation Safety Board hearing. The May 17 accident occurred when a pickup truck going the wrong way on Interstate 71 slammed into a bus owned by the Radcliff First Assembly of God church. Authorities contend the driver of the pickup was drunk at the time. NTSB spokesman Allan Pollock said accident survivors probably will not testify because the agency doesn't want to traumatize them. The pickup driver, Larry Mahoney, 35, has been indicted on 27 counts of murder, 13 counts of first-degree assault, 44 counts of first-degree wanton endangerment and one count of drunken driving. It will be the worst drunken-driving accident in U.S. history if he is convicted on the final charge, according to the NTBS and Mothers Against Drunk Driving. The board will hear testimony on six issues, five of which concern drunken driving, Pollack said. The sixth involves bus safety. Pollock said testimony will be taken on the performance and capabilities of drivers under the influence of alcohol; the extent of the drunken-driving problem; and the effectiveness of alcohol education and treatment programs. He said the witnesses also will address the adequacy of sanctions Kentucky's courts impose on drunken drivers and the development of effective alcohol countermeasure programs like jail terms, fines and license revocation. The accident has raised questions about bus safety because all 67 passengers on board survived the impact but the victims died when the bus's gas tank was punctured, causing a fire that quickly engulfed the vehicle. The fire blocked the front door, leaving the rear emergency door as the only escape route. The safety issues to be discussed include emergency exits; the upgrading of buses built before April 1977 when stricter federal safety rules became effective; the flammability of seats; and the placement and protection of the fuel tank. The board will draft a report on the probable causes of the crash and make recommendations for avoiding similar accidents. The recommendations could be directed toward federal, state and local officials, as well as bus manufacturers, but the safety board has no power to require that any of them be implemented.
AP900705-0008 	X	Amid escalating warfare between arts supporters and religious conservatives, the fate of the National Endowment for the Arts may be decided this summer in a bruising House floor fight. Legislators on both sides agree that when Congress votes on whether to extend the federal arts agency's life for another five years, it almost certainly will impose restrictions on the content of works that receive tax-paid grants from the endowment. The furor began more than a year ago with criticism of NEA support for exhibitions of sexually graphic images by photographer Robert Mapplethorpe and artist Andres Serrano. In recent months, it has erupted in a barrage of emotional newspaper and radio commercials, letter-writing campaigns and court battles. Endowment chairman John E. Frohnmayer, caught in the cross-fire since he took office nine months ago, came under renewed attack last Friday when he overruled an NEA panel's recommendations and rejected grants to four avant-garde ``solo performance theater artists.'' The People for the American Way Action Fund, a liberal lobbying group, said Frohnmayer's decision ``has the smell of politics all over it'' and was intended to placate right-wing critics of the arts endowment. One of the rejected artists, John Fleck of Los Angeles, charged that ``there's a strong movement going on to wipe out different voices, to have a homogeneous voice that suits certain people's morals.'' Solo performer Rachel Rosenthal of Los Angeles reportedly refused to accept her $11,250 endowment grant, saying the four rejected artists were among the best in their field. ``Why should I be considered clean and they're considered dirty?'' she asked. Ms. Rosenthal also refused to sign a controversial pledge that she would not use endowment funds for obscene, indecent or blasphemous art _ a condition imposed by Congress last fall at the urging of Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C. Endowment officials say that of the 2,000 grants awarded so far this year, 670 artists or arts institutions have signed the agreement and received government money, 12 have signed the pledge with letters of protest and a half-dozen have rejected grant awards. The rest haven't yet responded. On the same day he rejected the four grants, Frohnmayer told an audience in his home town of Portland, Ore., that the stakes in the mushrooming controversy were high. ``A remarkable experiment that has lasted the last 25 years and has so enriched our country is indeed threatened with either extinction or severe crippling because of 20 images out of a million we have funded,'' he said. Frohnmayer, who opposes the Helms amendment, said the arts community must share the blame for the bitter controversy that imperils the endowment, an independent, $171-million federal agency whose arts grants must be matched by local private funds. ``We've acted much like spoiled children asking our parents to continue sending us money regardless of what we do, how we spend it or whether we are prepared to be held accountable,'' he said. NEA officials refused comment on published speculation that Frohnmayer might resign after the endowment's reauthorization bill passes Congress. When asked during his Portland speech if he planned to resign, Frohnmayer answered firmly, ``No way.'' Although no date has been scheduled for House action on the NEA bill, arts lobbyists expect a vote sometime before legislators begin their month-long summer recess in early August. Three or four major proposals circulating among House members include a conservative plan for severe restrictions on NEA grants and a major overhaul of the endowment that would shift a substantial portion of grant funds directly to state arts councils. Some conservatives favor abolishing the endowment. At the heart of the debate are conflicting arguments over the government's proper role in supporting the arts. The arts community and its supporters contend that restrictions on NEA grant recipients amount to government censorship. That argument is rejected by conservative lawmakers and religious fundamentalists, who say the real issue is the taxpayers' right to decide where their money is spent. The conflict is dramatized in toughly worded newspaper ads and radio spots sponsored by People for the American Way and its nemesis, the Christian Coalition led by evangelist Pat Robertson, who was a conservative presidential candidate in 1988. ``Do you want to face the voters in your district with the charge that you are wasting their hard-earned money to promote sodomy, child pornography and attacks on Jesus Christ?'' Robertson asked in a full-page letter to members of Congress that was published in The Washington Post and USA Today. People for the American Way put such performers as Colleen Dewhurst, Kathleen Turner and Garrison Keillor on the air to counterattack. ``Imagine a world in which millions of people are at the mercy of a small band of extremists, in which works of art are subject to government censorship and freedom of expression is a crime,'' said Miss Dewhurst. ``Now stop imagining. Welcome to America, 1990.''
AP900403-0082 	X	Restaurateur by any spelling, whether with an ``n'' or without, is not a favorite word of keepers of the language, according to a survey. But if they have to use the word for keeper of a restaurant, they'll take it without the ``n,'' said respondents to the 12th English language usage survey by the Indiana University School of Journalism. ``Many in the survey found it stuffy no matter how it is spelled, though its use is patently expanding in this country,'' Professor Richard L. Tobin wrote in the survey released this week. The 10-question survey was mailed to 100 newspaper copy editors and 50 magazine editors in the United States and Canada and got a 60 percent return, Tobin said. ``The consensus throughout this year's survey was mighty close to unanimous in almost every example, which just goes to show that copyreaders know what they're doing and do it like the sterling language-usage guardians they are put there to be,'' the survey said. Nearly all editors agree ``percent'' should be one word and not two. Most editors agreed the region Deep South should be uppercase. Most copydesks caught the misuse of ``tremblor'' instead of ``temblor,'' in a line from a Maryland newspaper reporting a Palm Springs earthquake. Most changed ``forego'' to ``forgo'' in the sentence: ``The university decided to forego the traditional faculty banquet because of the financial situation.'' Copydesks were asked whether ``gibe'' or ``jibe'' was correct in the following sentence: ``Three suspects were taken to police headquarters but detectives announced later that their stories didn't gibe.'' The verdict was almost unanimous that ``jibe'' was correct. ``Complacent'' was correctly preferred over ``complaisant'' in an item saying a soccer team had become ``complaisant'' after four straight victories. Most Canadians agree a person of Scottish descent is ``Scotch'' rather than ``Scot,'' which is preferred in the homeland. ``Several respondents in our survey said they'd given up trying to substitute `Scot' for `Scotch,' and anyway it really didn't matter all that much,'' the survey said. Editors chose ``theretofore'' over ``hitherto'' in the sentence: ``In 1864, President Lincoln spent the hitherto unheard of sum of $3,000,000 on naval construction.'' Almost no one chose ``peddle'' over ``pedal'' in the final question, which came from a Florida sports page: ``When you're riding a bicycle you use the brake and the peddle with caution on today's highways.''
AP881111-0157 	X	A boat overloaded with moviegoers sank in a canal in southern Andhra Pradesh state, and at least 20 people drowned, Indian news agencies said Friday. The boat was carrying 70 people at the time of the accident in the Yenamadaru canal late Thursday, said Press Trust of India. The bodies of 17 victims _ 10 women, three men and four children _ have been recovered, district officials told the United News of India news agency. The accident site is about 800 miles southeast of New Delhi. District authorities have issued warrants for the arrest of two boatmen absconding after the accident, UNI said. They have been charged with causing the accident because of negligence and overloading, the news agency said.
AP900326-0151 	X	Families of murder victims from across Massachusetts gathered Monday to open the headquarters of a victims support group named for a high school student who was stabbed to death by Willie Horton in 1974. ``The ordeal my family has endured has brought us together with other families of murder victims,'' Donna Fournier Cuomo said in opening the Joey Fournier Victim Services' office across from the Statehouse. The group provides free counseling to relatives of murder victims and plans to lobby for legislation to change the criminal justice system. Cuomo, the group's founder and executive director, was Fournier's sister. Fournier, a 17-year-old vocational high school student, was stabbed, stuffed in a trash can and left to die by Horton. The case of Horton, who escaped while on furlough from prison and attacked a Maryland couple, became a highly publicized issue during the 1988 presidential campaign. Then-candidate George Bush used it to criticize Gov. Michael S. Dukakis' record on crime. Joey Fournier Victim Services already offers counseling in Lawrence in the northeastern section of the state, where Fournier grew up, and wants to open centers in other sections of Massachusetts. About 20 to 30 people attended Monday's opening, including Duane and Phyllis Hotchkiss of Saugus, whose 19-year-old son Brian was slain in 1989 in Lynn. ``I'm determined that our son's death is not going to be in vain,'' said Hotchkiss, who donated $100 to the group. The group needs to raise another $100,000, said Cuomo, who would not say how much has been raised. Counseling ordinarily costs about $100 a session, but not everybody can afford it and not all health insurance plans cover it, said Cuomo. Cuomo's voice wavered as she read the names of victims whose families were present. ``One tragic result of violent crime is the lasting effect it has on the victim's family. I know my family will never be the same,'' said Cuomo, who is no relation to New York Gov. Mario Cuomo. In addition to offering counseling, the headquarters will serve as the center for a coalition of victim support groups, including Parents of Murdered Children, the Young Adult Sibling Group and Victims for Victims. The Joey Fournier group has already introduced bills to repeal the state's criminal records law, which shields criminal records from public scrutiny. The organization also has submitted legislation to limit the governor's powers to commute sentences and another measure to require ``truth in sentencing'' so that convicted criminals will actually serve the time of their sentence.
AP901101-0040 	X	Amnesty International said today that Britain has refused entry to asylum-seekers who risk being returned to countries where they could face imprisonment, torture and death. A report by the London-based human rights group said Britain's refugee-determination system fails to uphold its obligations under the U.N. Convention on Refugees. ``As many as 100, and possibly many more, persons seeking asylum in the United Kingdom have been summarily and unlawfully expelled without a proper examination of their asylum claim,'' the 42-page report said without giving a specific number or time frame. ``In addition, an untold number of would-be asylum seekers have been prevented from gaining access to the United Kingdom's refugee-determination process,'' it added. The Home Office, in charge of immigration, said the report failed to recognize that most asylum-seekers were not fleeing political persecution under the terms of the 1951 U.N. convention. It said unfounded asylum claims were now widespread as a means of circumventing normal immigration controls and that Britain has been flooded with applications in recent years. The Amnesty report charged that Britain gives insufficient advice to asylum-seekers and that officials subject them to arbitrary and prolonged detention while their cases are being considered. It said most of those who arrive saying they are seeking asylum have no right of appeal when refused it. It said visa requirements and fines on airlines that arrive with foreign passengers who don't have proper travel documents have combined to obstruct bona fide asylum-seekers from gaining effective access to Britain's refugee-determination system. The Home Office statement said refugee-determination systems throughout Europe and North America are overwhelmed by unfounded claims and that backlogs in the two regions have doubled to more than 400,000 cases since 1985. It said that in Britain, applications for asylum have risen fivefold since 1988 and have reached more than 20,000 in the past 12 months. It said backlogged applications in Britain now number 27,000.
AP880609-0191 	X	Two House committees on Thursday approved legislation that would sever virtually all economic ties between the United States and South Africa to pressure the Pretoria government to abandon its policy of racial apartheid. The measure was approved by the Intelligence and Armed Services committees, both meeting in closed-door sessions, after amendments were added that would permit the United States to share intelligence information about Cuban military activities in southern Africa and permit military cooperation with South Africa if the president determines such ties to be in the national interest, committee aides said. The bill, which still must clear two more committees before it can go to the full House for action, would require U.S. disinvestment in South Africa within a year and ban most trade between the two countries. As originally written, the bill also would have banned military and intelligence cooperation. But the two committees added language creating an exemption for diplomatic activities and intelligence sharing concerning Cuban activities in Angola, where U.S.-backed rebels are fighting the Marxist government. Committee aides said the exemption was granted in part to avoid having the sanctions bill become a vehicle for a renewed debate over U.S. support for the Angolan rebels. The Armed Services panel also approved an amendment by Rep. Jon Kyl, R-Ariz., permitting military cooperation if the president deems it in the national interest. Both committees reported the bill out on voice votes. The measure still must clear the Ways and Means and Interior committees before being considered by the full House, where it is expected to pass. The measure is expected to have a tougher time in the Senate, however, because it lacks the Republican support which was crucial to passage of a limited sanctions bill two years ago.
AP900530-0045 	X	A flower grower and seven other people are charged with enslaving more than 100 undocumented workers from Mexico and forcing them to work long hours at petty wages. Lured by promises of good pay, the Mexicans were smuggled into the United States, then kept at the 50-acre ranch until they could pay off a $435 smuggling fee, according to a federal grand jury indictment issued Tuesday. The ranch operators beat workers and threatened to alert immigration authorities if they tried to leave the compound, which was surrounded by a 7-foot fence, the indictment alleged. Ranch owner Edwin M. Ives, 54, and five other people face up to 52 years in prison and $2 million in fines if convicted of all 15 charges in the indictment, federal prosecutors said. The charges involve labor and civil rights violations and a federal anti-slavery statute, said Assistant U.S. Attorney Carol Gillam. Two ranch foremen, Naju Lnu and Paringer Singh, were named in a criminal complaint filed last month. ``This is a very significant case that involves very serious violations of people's human rights,'' Gillam said. The charges were developed based on allegations by former workers and ranch documents, Gillam said. Ives' attorney, Robert M. Talcott, has maintained that Ives was not aware of any abuses at his Griffith Ives Co. ranch in Somis, in Ventura County about 50 miles northwest of downtown Los Angeles. The indictment alleges that Ives supervised the ranch operation and on one occasion personally recruited an undocumented worker and told another that he could not leave the ranch until his smuggling fees were paid. Prosecutors maintain the workers toiled 16 hours a day for a fraction of the $4.25-per-hour minimum wage. In addition, workers were required to buy food and basic staples from a company store at inflated prices, the indictment said. ``As a result of these deductions, the alien workers often received net pay for over 160 hours of work in a 15-day period of less than $100, and in some cases, actually no pay, because the deductions exceeded the amount of the paycheck,'' the indictment said. One worker allegedly suffered permanent head and back injuries during a beating. Ives refused to pay for treatment in the United States and instead gave the worker $100 to help pay for treatment in Mexico, the indictment said. Also named in the indictment were Pedro Pinzon, 30, Rony Havive, 30, Alvaro Ruiz, 39, Josue David Pinzon, 23, and the alleged smuggler, Mauro Casares, 64.
AP880901-0120 	X	President Maung Maung today rejected protesters' demands for an interim government but said he will allow the formation of student unions, which have been illegal in Burma. Earlier today, striking employees closed Rangoon's airport despite a government warning. Striking public employees said 1 million people would turn out for an anti-government rally at a park, but only about 100,000 showed up. In a speech broadcast over state-run Rangon radio, Maung Maung said any changes in Burma's one-party government must follow constitutional procedures. He said the government already plans a Sept. 12 meeting to consider holding a referendum on one-party rule, a process that could lead to amendment of the constitution and general elections. He added that Article 11 of the Constitution, under which only the ruling Burma Socialist Program Party is legal, must be changed. In what was seen as a gesture to students who have been at the vanguard of pro-democracy protests, Maung Maung said the government would permit student unions as long as they were ``properly formed.'' He also said that after passions cooled, the government would rebuild the Rangoon University student union building, which the military destroyed in July 1962 after Ne Win led the coup that ended democracy in Burma. Ne Win, who resigned in July after 26 years of authoritarian rule, abolished all political parties except his own, outlawed all unions and opposition groups and imposed rigid controls on the media. Since Maung Maung came to power Aug. 19, replacing hardliner Sein Lwin, masses of demonstrators have rallied and held strikes demanding immediate formation of an interim government to restore democracy. On Aug. 24, Maung Maung promised the party would hold an emergency meeting to consider a referendum on the issue. But the call did not end protests. On Sunday, students announced they had formed an illegal student union. The airport strike halted all international flights and further isolated the Southeast Asian nation. Union Burma Airways last Friday suspended both domestic and international service, but flights by other carriers had continued from Bangladesh, Nepal and Thailand. The All Services General Strike Committee, an illegal government association that was formed Tuesday, had called for 1 million workers from government departments and state-owned corporations to rally at Bandoola Gardens, the capital's largest park. People marched along Rangoon's main streets this morning and by noon, several thousand striking state employees and students had gathered outside the park. But the crowd appeared poorly organized and no attempt was made to enter the park. An hour later, all but a few hundred demonstators had peacefully dispersed. Two small rallies, one outside the nearby U.S. Embassy and one at a nearby government building, also broke up. On Wednesday, the government of President Maung Maung warned it would take action against demonstrators illegally occupying government buildings and facilities. Crowds in cities throughout Burma have taken over and sometimes destroyed offices of the government and of the ruling Burma Socialist Program Party. Government troops, who have not intervened in protests since five days of bloody riots forced Sein Lwin to resign Aug. 12, took over local government offices in the Bahan and Sanchaung areas of the capital Wednesday night and began repairing them. Members of former leader Ne Win's entourage, meanwhile, went to the Foreign Trade Bank on Wednesday and tried to transfer the equivalent of $3 million to a bank in London, a senior bank official said. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said junior bank employees heard about the request and demanded the bank not comply. They said Ne Win no long had authority to order such transfers. As word spread of the transfer request, a crowd gathered arond the bank and senior bank officials eventually rejected it, the official said. He declined to identify the people who sought the transfer or the bank in London. In another development, at least five illegal newspapers have appeared on the streets of Rangoon, selling briskly at 83 cents a copy, about 10 times the cost of the six government-approved newspapers. They have been reporting news of anti-government activities.
AP880527-0128 	X	Movie buffs expecting to see a classic film about British military hero Adm. Horatio Nelson instead got a soft-porn flick about Nelson's love affair with an aristocrat. A spokeswoman for the Watershed Media Center said a mislabeled film container caused the mix-up Thursday night. The center planned to show ``Lady Hamilton,'' the 1941 film starring Vivian Leigh and Laurence Olivier that tells the story of Nelson and his love affair. Center spokeswoman Sara Davies said ``Emma Hamilton,'' the pornographic movie about the same subject, was mistakenly put in the film can. About half the audience of 20 walked out when shots of a half-naked woman appeared on screen. ``The film can was labeled `Lady Hamilton,' and we believe it was a catalog error by the National Film Archives,'' said Ms. Davies. ``The projection staff soon realized something was wrong and stopped the film.'' ``Lady Hamilton,'' also called ``That Hamilton Woman,'' was a U.S.-made film designed to increase pro-British sentiment during World War II. It was reportedly Winston Churchill's favorite movie. Ms. Davies said irate patrons received their money back along with a free ticket to another show. The center showed ``Streetcar Named Desire'' that night.
AP880225-0307 	X	Indications that the Brazilian soybean crop may be larger than expected sent U.S. soybean futures prices down modestly Thursday on the Chicago Board of Trade. Grain futures closed mixed to lower. Soybean futures opened lower on news that rain had eased dry conditions in the soybean-growing region of Brazil. Later in the morning, the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics estimated the impending harvest would yield 19.4 million metric tons, significantly higher than the U.S. Agriculture Department's latest estimate of 18.5 million metric tons. ``This estimate was obviously negative for the U.S. market, and it took off any rallying attempt the beans might have had,'' said Walter Spilka, an analyst in New York for Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co. Grain and soybean futures also retreated in reaction to generally lower prices for other commodities, Spilka said. Losses in corn were limited by expectations of new Soviet purchases, he said. At the close, wheat was 2 cents lower to 1 cent higher with the contract for delivery in March at $3.18 a bushel; corn was unchanged to { cent lower with March at $1.98{ a bushel; oats were { cent lower to } cent higher with March at $1.90} a bushel; soybeans were 1{ cents to 3\ cents lower with March at $6.22 a bushel.
AP880425-0022 	X	Michael M. Wiese has seen the Vietnam War twice: first-hand as a gunner on a helicopter, and through fleeting images captured by soldiers on 8mm home movie film. Wiese, 38, estimates he has collected 1,000 hours of amateur footage during the last decade. Some of it is entertaining and some is boring but little is gory. All of it helps neutralize the nightmare of Vietnam, Wiese says. He has pieced together some of his best footage in a 90-minute videocassette being test marketed in the Indianapolis area. The tape, ``Helicopter Gunship Assault,'' is the first of what Wiese hopes will be a series of at least six tapes. ``In 90 percent of the film, it's unknown to me who took it or where it was taken,'' he said. ``But still, everybody wanted to watch it because what a soldier would take a picture of over there just to show mom was not what they were showing on the news.'' To Wiese, who spent seven months behind a machine gun aboard an Army helicopter, the film ``is the best therapy I ever had. It's like reliving a nightmare. If you relive it long enough, it's not a nightmare anymore. I've watched this 300 times, and I'm never bored. ```Nam was such a hard story for everybody to tell people back home about,'' he said. ``This makes the memories bubble out of you.'' Some footage shows soldiers escaping the war on a muggy day by landing their helicopters on a riverbank and taking a swim. Another scene shows helicopters dropping down to rescue patrols under attack. There are scenes of helicopter gunships firing at ground targets and receiving return fire. Most of the footage is remarkably intact after 20 years; little of the color has faded. One pilot shows the hut he made from scrap wood and discarded rocket boxes after his tent rotted through. Another narrates as a dog yaps in the background. ``If you watch over to the left, you'll see the tracers coming up at us,'' he says. ``There they are.'' Wiese says he has come across few gory scenes. ``I have some helicopter accidents,'' he says. ``I got aftermath of an ambush. But actual combat footage, I don't have much,'' he said. ``Soldiers were paid to keep their heads down.'' Vietnam was the first war in which soldiers could carry a lightweight camera with automatic shutter control and focusing capability. Still, Wiese says very little 8mm footage was shot in Vietnam. His first three reels were purchased for $1 each at a flea market. ``They were very boring,'' he said. ``I wanted at one time to collect photographs _ I lost my own collection,'' he said. ``And everyone has photos. But the 8mm stuff is real rare.'' So he started placing ads in local papers and national publications asking veterans to send him their film. He then transferred the film to VHS tape, returning one tape and the original film to the owner, and keeping a copy for himself. When possible, he got the soldiers to send an audio cassette narrative. Wiese, who formed a company called ``Vietnam Archives,'' has the owner sign an agreement giving him rights to the film. ``I promise to give them a royalty on each cassette,'' he said. He hopes to place his videos in libraries. ``I'm no Steven Spielberg,'' said Wiese. ``My intention is a real simple one: to collect this film and save it. I think some of it is worth being preserved. ``And it's great to get a bunch of guys together and sit down and watch this. You just can't believe the lies these guy will tell from their war stories.''
AP900105-0065 	X	The forecful editorial voice of Panama's La Prensa newspaper will be heard again Sunday for the first time in nearly two years if its exiled publisher can ``patch it together'' in time. ``We are running around like chickens with our heads cut off buying computer parts and so forth and hoping to get our first edition out on the streets by Sunday morning,'' Roberto Eisenmann Jr. said Thursday. Eisenmann, who has worked as a Miami bank executive while in exile, planned to travel to Panama City today in the absence of ousted leader Gen. Manuel Noriega. Pro-Noriega forces repeatedly shut down the presses of Panama's leading independent newspaper, the last time in February 1988. After receiving a dire report on conditions at the newspaper office, Eisenmann said, ``I don't know how we're going to do it with 95 percent destruction, but we're going to do it.'' Staff members returned to the newspaper plant on Christmas Day for the first time since the closure. ``The team came together immediately, and everybody's been working around the clock cannibalizing all the equipment to make one computer out of three,'' he said. ``We're going to patch it together with Band-Aids and be on the streets.'' Eisenmann, whose voice had been a thorn in the side of Noriega, said he had ``absolutely no problem'' with U.S. prosecution of Noriega on drug charges. ``Panama at this point has no capability. The judiciary system is not yet organized,'' he said. ``There isn't even a secure jail in the country at this point.'' The publisher said he expected Noriega to be returned to Panama for prosecution on human-rights abuses after the U.S. trial. Meanwhile, Eisenmann's time was occupied with ordering computer parts and preparing to fly home. ``When you're in exile, you live for the return,'' he said. ``Everybody that I know is packing bags and getting ready to go back.''
AP901130-0186 	X	BUSINESS EDITORS COMPOSING ROOMS The Associated Press will conduct another test transmission from its new market computer system on SUnday beginning at noon Eastern time. The test will be conducted on both Digital, Dataspeed and slow-speed circuits. This is ONLY a test. We ask those receiving the transmission to respond Monday by calling the AP in New York at 212-621-1568.
AP880330-0133 	X	McDonnell Douglas Corp. became the Pentagon's top research contractor in fiscal 1987, winning awards totaling $1.7 billion, the Defense Department said Wednesday. Among educational and non-profit entities, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology continued to hold down the top ranking, winning research contracts during the year worth $407.6 million. The Johns Hopkins University was close behind with awards totaling $354.9 million. Overall, the Pentagon increased its spending on research by more than 10 percent during fiscal 1987, with awards reaching a grand total of $21.8 billion. That compared with $19.8 billion in fiscal 1986. Much of last year's increase appeared related to work on President Reagan's Star Wars anti-missile system. The amount of money invested in research on ``missile and space systems'' climbed from $6.9 billion in fiscal 1986 to $7.9 billion in fiscal 1987. Moreover, the Martin Marietta Corp. _ a key Star Wars contractor _ vaulted from fifth place in the fiscal 1986 rankings to second place last year with contract awards rising from $695.3 million to $1.6 billion. The latest figures are contained in a report prepared annually by the Pentagon to rank the top 500 companies or non-profit groups performing ``research, development, test and evaluation'' work. The rankings are based on a review of all contracts totaling $25,000 or more awarded during the fiscal year that ended last Sept. 30. McDonnell Douglas, whose overall ranking as the nation's largest defense contractor was announced just a month ago, displaced the Lockheed Missiles & Space Co. in assuming the top spot for research. McDonnell Douglas' research contracts climbed from $928 million in fiscal 1986 to $1.7 billion in fiscal 1987. Because of Martin Marietta's abrupt rise, Lockheed fell to 3rd place in the research rankings, winning contracts in fiscal 1987 worth $1.54 billion compared with $1.48 billion the year before. The remainder of the Top 10 included the Boeing Co. in 4th place with awards totaling $1.2 billion, followed by the Grumman Aerospace Corp., $901.5 million; General Electric Co., $784.4 million; Raytheon Co., $593.8 million; TRW Inc., $556.6 million; Rockwell International Corp., $494 million; and IBM, $470.9 million. The $407.6 million in research contracts won by MIT was enough to give it the 11th place ranking overall. In fiscal 1986, MIT had won contracts worth $363.9 million and was ranked 14th overall. Among other educational and non-profit entities, Johns Hopkins was 2nd in fiscal 1987 with $354.9 million and a 15th ranking overall, followed by The Mitre Corp., $347.5 million, 16th overall; The Aerospace Corp., $338.9 million, 18th overall; and Charles Stark Draper Lab Inc., $164.7 million, 26th overall. All told, the top 500 concerns accounted for 97 percent of the total research contracts awarded, or $21.2 billion. The top 500 included 380 businesses, 100 educational and non-profit organizations, three U.S. government agencies and 17 foreign contractors. The research awards to foreign concerns totaled $114.3 million, up only slightly from the $106.9 million reported in fiscal 1986. The leading foreign contractor remained the same, the Canadian Commercial Corp., with awards totaling $25.9 million.
AP900328-0089 	X	Rep. Barney Frank, whose personal and professional relationship with a male prostitute is being investigated by the House ethics committee, said Wednesday that he will decide soon whether to seek a sixth term. The Massachusetts Democrat had said he would make no political announcement until the committee discloses its findings into his relationship with Stephen Gobie. However, Frank said he would begin raising campaign funds. ``You reach the point where if you don't do anything, you've decided by default,'' Frank said. Congressional candidates must formally submit nomination papers by May 8. A closed-door session of the ethics committee was set for Wednesday afternoon and there was speculation that an announcement would be made on the Frank case. Rep. Chester Atkins, D-Mass., a member of the panel, planned to attend the meeting. His attendance has been taken as a sign that Frank was not on the agenda because Atkins said last fall he would not attend meetings in which the Frank case was discussed. Atkins said his friendship with Frank and his role as the Democratic State Committee chairman in Massachusetts made him unable to remain impartial. Frank plans weekend fund-raisers in Boston and other towns to mark his 50th birthday Saturday. No Democrats have announced plans to run for Frank's seat. Two relatively unknown Republicans, lawyer John Soto and physician Jim Nuzzo, are running. The committee is investigating whether Frank violated House ethics regulations in his relationship with Gobie. Gobie alleges that Frank was aware he was running a sex-for-hire ring out of the congressman's Capitol Hill apartment. Frank said he fired Gobie from his job of personal assistant in 1986 after he learned of the prostitution ring. Frank has said he initially paid Gobie for sex, but later befriended him and gave him the job in an effort to change Gobie's life. Frank said he has testified before the ethics committee and has supplied it with all the documents and other information requested.
AP900318-0074 	X	A storefront church collapsed Sunday afternoon, trapping an 84-year-old Baptist minister and a female worshiper under a pile of rubble, authorities said. The Rev. Romey L. Barber, his wife and two female parishoners were leaving the Southern Tabernacle Missionary Baptist Church about 1:20 p.m. when the three-story building collapsed forward onto them, according to Fire Department supervisor Stephen Imszennik. The pastor and 53-year-old Jean Tucker were trapped for a half hour, authorities said. Barber suffered multiple fractures and was in serious condition at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital, while Ms. Tucker was in guarded condition at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, spokeswomen said. The building appeared to have been ``structurally defective in some way,'' Imszennik said.
AP881130-0050 	X	A journalist won the 1988 National Book Award for non-fiction with a book about the Vietnam War, and a newspaper columnist took the fiction prize for a novel about the murder of a girl in Georgia. Neil Sheehan, 52, author of ``A Bright Shining Lie: John Paul Vann and America in Vietnam,'' and Peter Dexter, 45, who wrote ``Paris Trout,'' were honored Tuesday night at an awards ceremony attended by 500 people. The authors each received $10,000 and a Louise Nevelson sculpture. ``I feel like a man who was on a long voyage of discovery ... who's finally come home,'' said Sheehan, his eyes damp with tears as he accepted the award for his book, which took him 16 years to write. Sheehan was United Press International's Vietnam bureau chief in 1962 and worked for The New York Times from 1964 to 1972. He obtained the Pentagon Papers in 1971 while working for the newspaper. Sheehan is the author of ``The Arnheiter Affair.'' ``A Bright Shining Lie'' tells the story of the Vietnam War through the eyes of Lt. Col. John Paul Vann, a troubled but dedicated career officer who spoke out against the brutality and ineffectiveness of the early U.S. strategy in Southeast Asia. Sheehan, a resident of Washington, said he wrote the book hoping that ``it would help my country ... come to grips with the war. ``The most moving reactions I get are from Vietnam veterans who write or call and say, `You put me back there. That's what it was like. For the first time I know what it was all about. I know why it happened the way it happened,''' he said. ``That's very moving. That's what I wanted to achieve.'' Dexter's novel is about the murder of a 14-year-old black girl by a white man in a small Georgia town just after World War II. The book was inspired by a shooting that took place when he was a child in Milledgeville, Ga. ``I just started putting that together and remembering things and that sort of became the spine of the novel,'' he said. Dexter, a columnist for The Sacramento (Calif.) Bee and a frequent contributor to national magazines, said the novel's success would not lead him to give up his column, which he writes three times a week. ``I'm not someone to hole up in the woods and produce a novel every two years. I like being on the street and hearing different voices,'' said Dexter, who has written two other novels. The books honored Tuesday were published by Random House, whose editorial director, Jason Epstein, also was honored. Epstein was the first winner of the National Book Awards Medal for Distinguished Contribution to American Letters. ``This is really a happenstance,'' Robert Loomis, executive editor of the publishing house, said of the awards sweep. Other fiction nominees were: Don DeLillo for ``Libra''; J.F. Powers for ``Wheat That Springeth Green''; Mary McGarry Morris for her first novel, ``Vanished''; and Anne Tyler for ``Breathing Lessons.'' The other non-fiction nominees were: Peter Gay for his biography, ``Freud: A Life For Our Time''; Eric Foner for ``Reconstruction: America's Unfinished Revolution, 1863-1877''; Brenda Maddox for ``Nora,'' a biography of James Joyce's lifelong companion and muse; and Jack McLaughlin's ``Jefferson and Monticello.'' The National Book Awards, established 38 years ago, are awarded by a panel of judges chosen by the National Book Awards Inc., a non-profit institution dedicated to creating a wider audience for American literature.
AP880920-0039 	X	For all the grand designs of the presidential nominees, a large number of Americans believe neither candidate could deliver on most of his campaign promises, a Media General-Associated Press poll has found. About half the 1,125 adults in the national survey saw both men as strong leaders, with Michael Dukakis rated by more as compassionate and George Bush rated by more as competent to manage the federal government. But just 36 percent said Bush could accomplish most of his stated goals in office, and only 31 percent said Dukakis could do most of what he wants. Nearly half said either would be stymied in office; the rest were unsure. Seven in 10 respondents agreed nonetheless that the outcome of the election will have a major impact on the nation's future. But they were divided evenly, 45-45, on whether the election will affect them personally. Results of the poll, conducted the week after Labor Day, underscored Bush's success since the Republican Convention at controlling the campaign agenda. Fifty-two percent said he had clear positions on the issues, while just 37 percent said the same of Dukakis. The results were released Monday. Bush also was perceived as the better government manager, 50-34, despite Dukakis' claim to the issue. And 77 percent said Bush understands the complex problems a president faces, while only 44 percent said that of Dukakis. Bush won overwhelming endorsement as better able to maintain a strong defense, chosen over Dukakis by 67 percent 15 percent. Bush was narrowly seen as more likely to cut the federal deficit, 38-30. In a measure that bodes well for an incumbent party, six in 10 said they were better off now than they were four years ago or eight years ago, and 55 percent expected their family finances to improve in the next few years. Bush had mixed success in his effort to paint Dukakis as more likely to raise taxes: A plurality, 45 percent, said there wasn't likely to be any difference between the two when it comes to that issue. Dukakis was rated higher than Bush on some personal issues. Sixty-two percent said Dukakis cares about people like them, while 50 percent said that of Bush. Forty-two percent said Bush sometimes talks carelessly, without considering the consequences; just 30 percent said that of Dukakis. The two were about equal in some other ratings: Six in 10 said both offer a vision of where they want to lead the country and five in 10 said both were strong leaders. Six in 10 said Bush would have good judgment under pressure and five in 10 said that of Dukakis. Bush was rated as better for the rich and Dukakis as better for the poor, but respondents were split on which would do more for the middle class. They were nearly split on which candidate would do more to improve education, with 39 percent choosing Dukakis and 33 percent Bush. Bush led solidly among respondents who said they plan to vote and had definitely made a choice, partly because a greater share of Republicans said they had decided. The gauge is a different one than in other national polls. Fifty-seven percent said they planned to vote and had made a definite choice; they favored Bush by 56-39. Dukakis led, 48-42, in a late June-early July poll, indicating that even opinions expressed as firm are movable. The poll found a three-way split in ideology, with about a third each calling themselves Republicans, Democrats and independents. Other recent polls had similar results, a departure from the longtime Democratic lead in this measure. The Media General-AP poll was conducted the week after Labor Day, Sept. 6-14, among a random sample of adults nationwide. It had a margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points for all respondents, four points for those who said they planned to vote and had chosen a candidate. Media General Inc., a communications company based in Richmond, Va., publishes the Richmond Times-Dispatch, the Richmond News Leader, the Tampa (Fla.) Tribune and the Winston-Salem (N.C.) Journal, and operates TV stations WXFL in Tampa, WCBD in Charleston, S.C., and WJKS in Jacksonville, Fla.
AP900905-0189 	X	As the trademark piano received a final tuning, sales help scurried around the new Nordstrom Inc. department store unpacking the remaining boxes, rearranging clothes racks and getting to know the inventory. The opening of the Nordstrom store at the Garden State Plaza shopping mall in Paramus, N.J., marks the retailer's first foray into the fiercely competitive Northeast. The official debut occurs Friday when the 245,000-square-foot store opens for business. Members of the media were given a preview tour of the store Tuesday. Operating in this area might pose the biggest challenge yet for the West Coast chain that has been migrating eastward as part of an ambitious expansion. A struggling regional economy has shaken consumer confidence and crimped spending. Crisis in the Middle East could further curb retail spending as the critical holiday season approaches. Nonetheless, Nordstrom executives seem optimistic about entering the market and private analysts say the retailer stands a good chance to thrive here. Its service-oriented brand of retailing, combined with broad assortments of reliable quality merchandise, will give it an edge over rivals with less favorable reputations, analysts say. ``I think it's probably one of the best _ if not the best _ department stores in the country,'' said Carl Steidtmann, chief economist at Management Horizons, the retail management and market research division of the accounting firm Price Waterhouse. ``The fact that the competition is in such a state of disarray might make it a good time to go into the Northeast.'' Richard Pyle, a retail analyst at Piper Jaffray & Hopwood Inc., said Nordstrom, which focuses on women's, men's and children's fashions, shoes and accessories, is in far better financial shape than its competitors. Some department stores, such as Macy's _ which is a Nordstrom neighbor at the Garden State Plaza _ are courting customers aggressively to boost business and pay off debts. Others, such as Saks Fith Avenue, are adjusting to life under new owners who are closely monitoring bottom lines. The 61-store Nordstrom chain dates back to 1901 when Swedish immigrant John W. Nordstrom founded a Seattle shoe shop with money made mining gold in Alaska. Nordstrom still emphasizes shoes; the Paramus store boasts an inventory of some 70,000 ladies' shoes and 30,000 men's. The chain has historically prided itself on top-notch service and stories abound about its sales associates going to unusual lengths to please people. ``Nordies'' have been known to personally deliver merchandise to customers' homes and to write thank-you notes to customers _ typically on their own time. The legendary service has been a key to landing customers in new markets. As elsewhere, the Paramus store employs personal shoppers who will help customers select apparel, assemble outfits and accessorize. A concierge stationed near the entrance will steer customers in the right direction and handle special requests. Shoppers have three restaurants to choose from on the store's three levels and a spa offering massages, facials, manicures, pedicures and waxing. James F. Nordstrom, one of three descendents of the founder who currently bear the title co-chairman, said shoppers appreciate being treated well no matter what part of the country they live in. Apart from minor adjustments in merchandise mix, he said there have been no special adaptations made in bringing the Seattle-based retailer east. The chain already operates two stores in the Virginia suburbs of Washington and intends to open two more in New Jersey over the next two years, plus one in New York in 1993. Its growth strategy calls for about four openings a year. ``We just think customers like a lot of selection, good quality and to be treated nicely,'' he said in a telephone interview from the company's headquarters. One blot on the Nordstrom name appeared earlier this year when the Washington state Department of Labor and Industries, acting after a union complaint, ruled that the company has failed to pay employees for some of the extras they provide. The agency ordered Nordstrom to properly compensate employees for work and to pay back wages. Industry analysts say Nordstrom has weathered the bad publicity without much damage to its reputation. A $15 million reserve the company set aside to pay back wage claims should be adequate. James Nordstrom said the labor problems, which have been confined mostly to the Seattle area, haven't impaired the retailer's results. Many employees have proven their commitment to the company, he said, by paying their own way to transfer to new stores. The Paramus store will have about 100 sales associates who have previously worked elsewhere for Nordstrom. An additional 100 managers were transferred by the company, which has a policy of promoting from within. About 900 employees overall will work at the Garden State Plaza store. Nordstrom's sales and profits haven't been as impressive lately as they had been in the recent past. Earnings slid 20 percent in the first half of this year to $49 million on sales of $1.36 billion. That deterioration came after a 7 percent income drop last year to $115 million despite a 14.7 percent sales gain to $2.7 billion. Nordstrom also has felt the pinch of the currently sluggish retail climate. Co-chairman Nordstrom said, ``It's fair to say that our planned increase in sales is greater than the increase we're experiencing.'' He said the retailer is taking a conservative approach to the coming season and will tighten inventory slightly. If business doesn't measure up chainwide for a prolonged period, Nordstrom may scale back its expansion plans. ``We're not going to leverage ourselves and grow for growth sake,'' Nordstrom said, noting that some openings may be delayed if necessary. At the Paramus store, retail analysts say the company is hoping sales will exceed $100 million in the first year. Nordstrom executives declined to disclose projections.
AP901029-0161 	X	A jury was seated Monday in a trial to decide who is the rightful owner of a .38-caliber Colt Cobra revolver Jack Ruby used to kill presidential assassin Lee Harvey Oswald. The case before Dallas County Probate Judge Robert E. Price could end 23 years of legal wrangling between Ruby's heirs and Jules Mayer, a lawyer who knew Ruby and was named executor of the Dallas nightclub owner's estate. But with the twists and turns the case has taken through the judicial system since Ruby died Jan. 3, 1967, nothing is certain. The six-person jury selected Monday was expected to hear opening statements Tuesday. The court is dealing with the questions of how to distribute Ruby's assets and whether to remove Mayer as executor. Mayer still practices law at age 82. Attorneys for Ruby's brother, Earl, were expected to question Mayer's ability to handle the estate in light of his advanced age. Potential jurors were questioned about their views on mandatory retirement and a person's professional effectiveness beyond a certain age. The most valuable asset in the estate is the .38-caliber Colt Cobra Ruby used to kill Oswald in the basement of the Dallas City Jail two days after President Kennedy's assassination here in 1963. Ruby was convicted of murder in 1964 and sentenced to die in the electric chair. A Texas appeals court overturned the conviction in 1966, citing reasons that included failure to move the trial from Dallas. Ruby died at age 55 before a new trial could be held. For years since then, Mayer and Earl Ruby have been fighting over ownership of the gun Jack Ruby bought for $62.50 in a Dallas gun shop. The gun is stowed in a bank safe deposit box. Mayer estimates it could bring $125,000 on the collectors' market. Whatever its value, Mayer contends money from sale of the gun should go to pay off Ruby's debts. He says they include the $65,000 it has cost him to handle the estate, including the expense of fighting Earl Ruby's lawsuits. Earl Ruby, of Boca Raton, Fla., who is also acting on behalf of his sister and a nephew, counters that Mayer is trying to profit from the estate. He wants the estate liquidated to pay off his brother's debts and ``wipe the slate clean.'' He also claims that Jack Ruby gave him deathbed instructions to tear up the will in which he had named Mayer executor. Apart from the coveted gun, the estate consists largely of the clothes and jewelry Ruby wore when he shot Oswald, and some personal papers. Earl Ruby said Monday that if he loses, he will ``go home and cry a little bit'' but will not appeal. Regardless of the trial's outcome, it's unlikely to be the last word on the gun matter. Last year, the Internal Revenue Service stepped into the case claiming that Ruby owed $17,000 when he died. That amount, the IRS said, has grown to $86,010 with interest and penalties. The state of Texas also claims the estate owes it $1,227 in back taxes. Earl Ruby says the IRS sacrificed any claim by waiting 22 years to act on it. Price has set a trial for February to hear the IRS claim.
AP880929-0075 	X	The World Bank will increase its yearly loans nearly 50 percent by 1992 to help end poverty in the Third World, the organization's president said today. Barber B. Conable spoke in West Berlin during the annual meeting of the bank and its sister organization, the International Monetary Fund. Participants from 151 nations have spent a week exploring ways to lighten the debt load of poor nations. The meeting ends today. Leftist groups have mounted protests to criticize the international banks, which make development loans, for insisting on repayment by Third World nations. About 1,000 demonstrators gathered at a church nearby Wednesday and chanted ``IMF Murder Meeting.'' Thousands of riot police held them back with plastic shields. Third World countries owe about $1.2 trillion to international and private lenders as well as governments. Conable predicted that the World Bank will be lending $25 billion dollars a year by 1992 to Third World nations. It now lends about $17 billion a year, and the monetary fund provides about $8 million more. Speaking at a news conference, he said $5 billion will go to the poorest countries, which are mainly in Africa. Conable said the bank will strengthen its aid by sharing more financing with other donors. He said Japanese officials have told him they plan to help and promised to talk with him about a program. Contributions to the bank come from the 151 member governments. Conable also pinpointed trade imbalances as part of the debt problem faced by poor countries. He said they cause losses twice as great as the aid such countries receive from wealthier nations. Speakers from the Third World have protested repeatedly at the meeting that the industrial countries put up barriers to their exports that prevent debtor countries from earning money. In an interview before his news conference, Conable said he believed interest rates were stabilizing after recent increases. The financial leaders have listened this week to warnings that higher interest rates, used by the United States and other industrial countries to cool inflation, threaten the Third World. ``It would be highly undesirable if an excessive concern for inflation were to bring about a spiral of interest rate rises,'' said Giuliano Amato, Italy's treasury minister. At Wednesday's sessions, participants seeking new ways to ease the burden of debt heard about the cost of higher interest rates to Third World countries. Every 1 percent rise in interest rates costs the debtors $6 billion more a year, said Stanley Fischer, vice president and chief economist of the World Bank. The United States and other industrial countries view higher interest as a way of controlling price increases. In the United States, higher interest rates also attract money from abroad to meet the federal budget deficit. Third World countries pay more than $50 billion a year on loans subject to variable interest rates. They complain that too much of their earnings go to pay interest, leaving little to improve living standards. In many of them, especially in sub-Saharan Africa, people's incomes have been declining for 20 years.
AP880428-0113 	X	Thirteen Americans and six Canadians were honored as heroes today by the Carnegie Hero Fund Commission. Three of the heroes, all Canadians, died risking their lives in their attempt to save others. The Carnegie Hero Fund Commission now has honored 37 people thus far this year and 7,218 people since it was founded in 1904 by industrialist Andrew Carnegie to recognize heroism in the United States and Canada. Heroes or their survivors receive a medal and $2,500. Those honored today include: _John Anderson Floyd, Garden Grove, Calif. _Rubin A. Vigil, Buena Park, Calif. _Christopher J. Young, Holland, Pa. _Robert G. Pourier, Winnipeg, Manitoba. _Robert E. Tindal, Shallotte, N.C. _Paul J. Myers, Oshawa, Ontario. _Theodore J. Gundler, Hamilton, Ohio. _Daniel H. Penney, Sidney, British Columbia. _Thomas H. Schneider, Redding, Calif. _Stephen W. Underwood, Tulelake, Calif. _Matthew H. Rokes, Yreka, Calif. _James C. Alvine III, West Caldwell, N.J. _Arthur Richard Palecek, Oakland, N.J. _Richard A. Bogert, Union, N.J. _Nobuichi Kasahara, Waimea, Hawaii. _Donald Howard Green, Palmdale, Calif. _The late John H. King, Winnipeg, Manitoba. _The late Richard C. Grant, Kingsville, Ontario. _The late Jeffrey Aaron Small, Caledonia, Ontario.
AP880519-0077 	X	A judge banned an 18-year-old robbery suspect from riding the city's train system, calling the youth ``a menace'' to transit patrons. ``He's forfeited his right to use that form of public transportation. He can use the public sidewalk,'' Cook County Circuit Judge Michael Bolan declared Wednesday when Tommy Holloway appeared for the second consecutive day on charges he had robbed a train passenger. On Tuesday, Bolan found probable cause to charge Holloway with robbery for the theft of a gold necklace and $38 from a 16-year-old student riding an elevated train on April 22. Less than two hours after leaving court on $5,000 bond in that case, prosecutors contend, Holloway stole a St. Louis Cardinals baseball cap and a book bag from another student waiting for a train. During that attack, Holloway and nine other youths punched and kicked the victim on the ground, said Assistant State's Attorney Mary Lou Norwell. Bolan on Wednesday set bond at $50,000 for each case. He didn't say how he would enforce that banning order. ``You're leading a marauding little pack of dogs out there,'' Bolan told the defendant. ``If I could hold you without bond, I would because you're a danger to the community _ a menace.''
AP900820-0088 	X	Two women are vying for the Republican gubernatorial nomination in Tuesday's primary election, and the winner most likely will face Democratic Gov. Mike Sullivan. The GOP candidates are Mary Mead, daughter of former Gov. and U.S. Sen. Cliff Hansen, and state Rep. Nyla Murphy. Mead, a Teton County rancher, and Murphy, a 12-year state representative from Casper, seemed to agree on issues more often than not during the primary campaign. Both support abortion rights, oppose other states dumping garbage in Wyoming, and favor the death penalty. Where they differ is on Mead's call for a cut in minerals taxes to spur exploration. Murphy believes the current tax system is adequate and that the economy will improve under the state's diversification efforts. Sullivan is seeking his second term. His opponent for the Democratic nomination is Ron ``Suds'' Clingman, a Rock Springs motorcycle repairman who believes his stances on lowering the drinking age back to 18, legalizing gambling, and cutting the salaries of public officials are popular. U.S. Sen. Alan Simpson, the Senate Minority Whip, is seeking a third term, and U.S. Rep. Craig Thomas is pursuing his first full term in office. Simpson faces two political unknowns in the GOP primary, while six unheralded Democrats are seeking their party's nomination for the seat. Thomas was appointed to fill Dick Cheney's unexpired term in office when he was appointed defense secretary last year. Thomas is unopposed in the primary as is his Democratic opponent, Pete Maxfield.
AP880628-0033 	X	The White House and the weather cooperated to entertain Turkish President Kenan Evren in regal style at a starlit state dinner, where President Reagan lauded ties with the NATO ally as a ``solid structure'' for building peace and prosperity. Evren, the first Turkish president to make a state visit to the United States in 21 years, responded with a toast at Monday's Rose Garden event that praised Reagan for his efforts to lessen superpower tensions and slash the threatening arsenal of nuclear weapons. ``We support the efforts of your administration to seek better relationships with the Soviet Union,'' said the Turkish president, whose strategic nation borders on that country as well as Iran and Iraq. In his brief toast, Reagan hailed recent improvements in the U.S.-Turkish relationship. He said the 40-year history of bilateral ties was built upon a ``solid structure'' and predicted it would continue decades into the future. ``Our aspirations for our partnership remain large _ peace, security and freedom for our peoples, close cooperation in securing these objectives, and success in defending them,'' Reagan said. Turkey is the third largest recipient of U.S. aid after Israel and Egypt, primarily due to its strategic location and usefulness as a listening post on the Soviet Union, the Middle East and the Persian Gulf. Although strains have appeared in the relationship in recent years over the level of U.S. aid to the strategic NATO ally, no such problems were apparent at the elaborate state dinner. Usually, the black-tie events that are part of a formal state visit occur inside the executive mansion. But tempted by the balmy breezes that ended a heat spell and the clear moonlit skies, the dinner featuring shrimp parfait, filet of lamb and coconut ice cream was served in the torch-lit Rose Garden. Later, guests were entertained under the stars by classical guitarist Christopher Parkening. Earlier in the day, the two men met for 45 minutes after a colorful fife and drum welcome was accorded the Turkish leader. A senior administration official said the two men engaged in a ``general review'' of the bilateral relations, and touched on East-West relations and the Iran-Iraq War. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Reagan took the opportunity ``to assure President Evren that we would continue to work ... with Congress to give priority to our overall security assistance program with Turkey.'' The official said the Turkish president made no specific economic requests and that his remarks carried ``the theme of trade, not aid.'' Congress approved $520 million in aid for Turkey last year _ almost all of it military assistance _ down from the $570 million which the administration sought and the $1.2 billion that Turkey is seeking to help modernize its defense forces. For fiscal 1989, starting next Oct. 1, the administration has asked Congress to approve $620 million. The president said Americans ``have admired the way Turkey pulled itself back to democracy when challenged by the violent forces of terrorism and anarchy a year ago.'' Evren, a retired army general, led a 1980 coup in Turkey that helped restore public order after years of mounting violence by the extreme right and left. Democratic civilian rule was restored in 1983 and voters overwhelmingly approved a new constitution, making Evren president for a 7-year term. Reagan also praised growing U.S.-Turkish trade, calling it ``the surest way that Turkey can find to ensure the prosperity its people seek.'' And in a symbolic move, Reagan presented Evren with the Legion of Merit in gratitude for the contribution of the Turkish military during the Korean War. The medal represents one of the highest military honors America can bestow.
AP900915-0010 	X	Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner is labeling as unrealistic and irresponsible Senate legislation that would require tougher auto fuel economy standards, saying it would cause hundreds of additional traffic deaths. Skinner denounced the legislation Friday only hours after the Senate voted 68-28 to consider the proposal next week. The measure would require automakers to increase average fuel economy of new cars to 35 miles per gallon by 1995 and to 40 miles per gallon by 2001. Supporters contend the higher fuel economy requirements, once fully implemented, would save 2.8 million barrels of oil a day, but key opponents promised to continue fighting the measure. Skinner told a news conference that if the measure clears Congress, he would strongly advise President Bush to veto it. But the measure likely will run into serious opposition in the House, where supporters must maneuver around the Energy and Commerce Committee, whose chairman, Rep. John Dingell, D-Mich., is strongly opposed to the legislation. Skinner said the bill is ``unrealistic, irresponsible and, more important, unattainable.'' He said auto executives have convinced him there is no technology to achieve the bill's goals without making cars smaller. ``It should be called the highway fatality bill,'' Skinner said. He cited a new study by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration that concluded there is a clear link between reducing the size of cars and increasing numbers of traffic deaths. Joan Claybrook, NHTSA administrator during the Carter administration and now president of the consumer group Public Citizen, disputed claims that cars necessarily will have to be made smaller to burn less fuel. She cited a Transportation Department research vehicle built in the 1970s that achieved 43 mpg while providing occupants improved protection over conventional cars. Sen. Donald Riegle, D-Mich., who has led the opposition to the plan, said he would continue the fight against bringing the measure to a vote next week. ``We've just had the first inning of this nine-inning game,'' said Riegle. ``We hope and intend to win this fight.'' But the Senate vote reflected the growing support in Congress for an effort to reduce U.S. reliance on foreign oil, a subject in the spotlight since Iraq's invasion and annexation of Kuwait early last month. In floor debate, Riegle said the bill's fuel savings wouldn't likely begin phasing in until 1995 and a better response to today's oil crisis might be to return to a national speed limit of 55 mph. Later, a Riegle spokeswoman said the senator didn't necessarily support a change in the speed limit and would vote against such a measure if it were introduced. Sen. Richard Bryan, D-Nev., the bill's sponsor, described the measure as a message to the automakers ``that they're going to have to look at fuel economy and not just muscle cars.''
AP900524-0226 	X	The stock market showed a small loss today as traders studied the latest data on economic growth. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials dropped 3.32 to 2,852.94 by noontime on Wall Street. Losers outnumbered gainers by about 8 to 7 in nationwide trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed issues, with 618 up, 695 down and 551 unchanged. As the business day began the Commerce Department reported that the gross national product grew at a 1.3 percent annual rate, after adjustment for inflation, in the first quarter of the year. The reduction in the figure, from a previous estimate of 2.1 percent, was larger than most analysts had been estimating. But the significance of the numbers was clouded by word that the difference stemmed to a great extent from a downward revision of business inventories rather than final sales. A shrinkage in inventories can be interpreted not as a clear sign of economic weakness, but rather as a possible portent of an approaching pickup in production demand. Interest rates were unchanged to narrowly lower in the credit markets following the news. Philip Morris led the active list, down 1&rsqb; at 43}. Brokers cited a federal regulator's push to ban cigarette vending machines, and news that the City University of New York and Harvard University had decided to sell their tobacco stocks. U.S. Shoe, which reported sharply higher quarterly earnings, climbed 1&rsqb; to 24~. The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks lost .26 to 195.59. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index was up .72 at 360.37. Volume on the Big Board came to 71.45 million shares at noontime, against 83.65 million at the same point Wednesday.
AP880712-0136 	X	Just weeks ago, they were troublemakers, working their way through the criminal justice system, convicted of crimes from drug dealing to manslaughter. Today, they stand at attention, heads shaved, eyes straight ahead. Every phrase ends with an emphatic ``Sir!'' Every item in their foot lockers perfectly folded, every order perfectly obeyed. No, they haven't joined the military. Not exactly. They're probationers at Camp Sauble, Michigan's 5-month-old experimental ``boot camp'' prison, where ``shock incarceration'' is used to jolt 17- to 25-year-old offenders into straightening out their lives. On Monday, reporters got their first glimpse of the intense physical training and military-style discipline the probationers endure for 90 days. From the first day, the offender is ``told he's an embarrassment to society, ... a parasite to society,'' said Inspector Bruce L. Curtis, an ex-Marine drill instructor. ``We start working on their minds,'' Curtis said. ``It's the first time they've ever been held accountable for anything. Instead of holding down a job or going to school, it's been easier for them to knock some old lady on the street and take her Social Security check.'' At first, 19-year-old Jesse Roberson of Pontiac didn't think he could make it through the program. ``When I first came here I was pretty scared,'' said Roberson, who was driving drunk when a passenger in his car was killed in a crash. He faced 15 to 30 years in prison for manslaughter. Roberson's now looking at graduation in two weeks. ``You come in a baby and you leave a man,'' he said. ``This program got rid of my temper and makes me want to go out and do something positive with my life.'' Scott Fetzlaff, 20, of Manistee, said he's had time to think about his mistakes, including his breaking and entering conviction. ``They scare everything right out of you the first day,'' he said. ``It's going to change my ways when I get out.'' The program, which began March 1 at a former minimum-security work camp in the Manistee National Forest, has had seven graduates and now has 70 probationers, about half its capacity. Two men escaped, only to be captured within 24 hours, and 16 others have flunked out, returning to the judge for resentencing, usually resulting in a multiyear prison term. Those who disobey orders may be required to carry a 25-pound ``motivational'' log on their shoulder for the day, or to perform ``motivational'' detail, possibly digging out a tree stump by hand. For the probationers, days begin at 5 a.m. with the screams of a corrections officer or the banging of trash can lids at their heads. Physical training, cleaning buildings and 7{ hours of chopping trees in county, state and federal parks make up most of the 17-hour days, followed by educational and substance abuse programs at night. One hour of free time may be spent watching television news or writing letters. No visits are allowed, and one 10-minute telephone call may be made each week after the first six weeks. The men march double time, chanting in unison after the officer in charge, ``Mental tough, mental hard! I can do it! You can do it! We can do it!'' A shifting eye while standing at attention may result in 15 push-ups on the spot. There is silence at meal time. The program is modeled after similar programs in other parts of the country, but is designed for more ``hard-core'' offenders than the others, said Donald Hengesh, state Department of Corrections project coordinator. While offenders must not have served any previous prison sentence, their convictions range from felonious assault and manslaughter to forgery and narcotics possession. ``There are no Sunday school cases here,'' said Hengesh. The Department of Corrections has notified judges and probation officers that the program is an option for offenders who, according to sentencing guidelines, would face at least one year of prison. The only exception would be a probation violator with a new felony conviction, who might be sentenced to a prison term of less than 12 months. Candidates must never have served any prison time and must be physically able to participate. Offenders convicted of sex or arson charges also are not admitted. The program is proving cost effective, with each inmate costing $3,846, compared with $20,000 each state prison inmate costs annually, Hengesh said. While civil rights activists argue intimidation and fear don't rehabilitate, state Sen. Jack Welborn, who sponsored legislation to fund the camp, said he's sold on the program. ``I believe a kid in this program has a better chance of going straight when he gets out than in any other program in the corrections system,'' he said. ``The kid that goes into prison comes out a better criminal.''
AP900603-0034 	X	Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev said Sunday that he would visit Japan as part of an effort to build ties with his country's Pacific neighbors. Gorbachev's disclosure, at a summit-ending news conference with President Bush, came on the eve of his planned meeting in San Francisco with President Roh Tae-woo of South Korea, which is actively seeking to normalize relations. The Soviet Union wants to upgrade its outdated and inefficient production facilities, and both Japan and South Korea could be valuable sources of inexpensive technology and consumer goods that aren't available in the Soviet Union or are in such short supply that they are practically unobtainable. The Japanese had been expecting a Gorbachev visit, perhaps in the spring of 1991, but relations between the two countries have been strained by a longstanding territorial dispute. The Kuril Islands, which lie to the north of present-day Japan, were seized and settled by the Soviets at the end of World War II, and the Japanese want them returned. The dispute thus far has blocked improved trade relations between the two countries. Meanwhile, the South Koreans have launched a major drive to open relations with former Communist East Bloc countries, and are seeking new markets for their high-technology exports. But Soviet officials have sought to play down the meeting between Gorbachev and Roh, pointing to the sensitivity of relations with North Korea, the Soviets' longtime ally. Some members of the Soviet delegation also have suggested that Japanese business leaders are uneasy about the Gorbachev-Roh meeting because they view the South Koreans as competition for the Soviets' huge market and natural resources. Gorbachev, in his remarks at the news conference, said the Soviet Union would like to help build a cooperative community among Pacific nations like the one in Europe. ``We must act with due regard for those specifics'' in the Asian region, he said, ``without copying blind the European process but borrowing something from it.'' ``Of course, I think this road will be longer and more thorny,'' Gorbachev said. ``But still, it is especially necessary over there because those peoples need an opportunity to reallocate their resources to overcome a lot of social problems that have been accumulated.'' He noted the increasing contacts between the Soviet Union and India and China, countries he has visited within the last two years. ``I am planning to go on a visit to Japan so as to open that area for discussion,'' he said. ``So we're going to intensify our efforts in that direction.''
AP900205-0218 	X	The dollar fluctuated in a narrow range in calm European trading late this morning as markets awaited news from a key meeting of the Soviet Communist Party. Gold prices rose. Traders said they expected little movement in the dollar until there were political developments in the Soviet Union and U.S. markets opened. The Communist Party's Central Committee is meeting today and Tuesday to debate a proposal, endorsed by President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, to give up its exclusive claim to power. News of further Soviet democratization could fuel some dollar buying, dealers said. But the U.S. currency generally remains on a downward trend, traders said. ``The dollar is currently a sick currency,'' one Milan trader said. The huge U.S. budget and trade deficits, lackluster economic growth, persistent inflation and the prospect of lower interest rates are all weighing on the dollar, he said. In Tokyo, where trading ends as Europe's business day begins, the dollar rose 0.64 yen to a closing 145.60 yen. Later, in London, it was quoted at 145.70 yen. Other dollar rates at midmorning, compared with late Friday's prices, included: 1.6786 West German marks, down from 1.6860; 1.4868 Swiss francs, down from 1.4964; 5.7015 French francs, down from 5.7360; 1.8930 Dutch guilders, down from 1.9010; 1,246.50 Italian lire, down from 1,252.00; and 1.1875 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1884. In London, the dollar fell against the British pound. It cost $1.6915 to buy one pound, compared with $1.6820 late Friday. Gold opened in London at a bid price of $418.50 a troy ounce, up from $417.25 bid late Friday. At midmorning, the city's major bullion dealers fixed a recommended price of $418.75. In Zurich, the bid price was $418.40, up from $417.75 bid late Friday. Gold in Hong Kong rose $1.10 to close at a bid $416.86. Silver rose in London to a bid price of $5.31 a troy ounce, up from Friday's $5.29.
AP901218-0085 	X	The European Community may suffer major political and economic damage by refusing to compromise in world trade talks over U.S. proposals for deep cuts in farm subsidies, Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter said Tuesday. If it comes to an agricultural trade war with the EC, said Yeutter, the United States is prepared to fight. Negotiations among 107 nations in the so-called Uruguay Round of trade talks collapsed Dec. 7 in Brussels after the EC refused to bend on U.S. proposals on major farm trade issues, including cutbacks in internal price supports and export subsidies. The United States, backed by Australia, Brazil and other major exporters, sought sharp reductions in subsidies, while the 12-nation EC, Japan and Korea were against the plan. Efforts are being made to reconvene the talks in mid-January, but Yeutter said further negotiations would have little chance unless the EC is prepared to change its hard-line stance. But Yeutter told reporters he thinks some internal pressures are developing in favor of a reassessment of the EC position. Yeutter said he was Europe last week in the aftermath of the Dec. 7 breakdown and found the community to be ``very embarrassed by what happened in Brussels.'' The community ``will probably not concede that publicly, but the fact is they suffered a major geopolitical defeat in Brussels, with essentially all of the world leaving with dissatisfaction and disappointment in the EC position,'' he said. ``A lot of folks in Western Europe are chagrined by the present status of the Uruguay Round and are concerned that the (EC) may bear the lion's share of the blame for failure, should it occur,'' Yeutter said. Consequently, he said, a number of ``working level'' people in the EC are trying to reassess the bloc's position in hopes the stalled talks can be rejuvenated. But Yeutter said he didn't know at this point whether this can translate into changes at the EC's leadership level. ``I'm pessimistic about the potential outcome (of the talks) so long as the community maintains its present intransigent stance,'' he said. Earlier, in a telephone news conference with broadcasters, Yeutter he was not ready to tip off the EC what the United States might do if the Uruguay Round of talks fail completely. But Yeutter predicted that the EC potentially could be forced into spending all its allotted funds in 1991 trying to maintain high supports and export subsidies to keep pace with the United States. Of course, he said, the EC then could replenish its coffers but ``they would have to make a conscious decision'' to spend more on agriculture than they do now. ``We'll be spending more money, too, of course, and we'll have to find the financial resources to do that, and a lot of other countries will, as well,'' he said. Yeutter also hinted at other possible U.S. trade actions in case the trade talks fail but declined to be specific. ``I want them to be uncertain about what our response would be - and a bit frightened by the potential,'' he said. ``So, I'm not going to discuss publicly what the United States might do.''
AP900521-0229 	X	Stock prices declined slightly in quiet trading today, marking time after last week's rise to a record high. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials dropped 7.18 to 2,812.73 in the first half hour of trading. Losers outnumbered gainers by about 7 to 5 in nationwide trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed issues, with 405 up, 566 down and 501 unchanged. Volume on the Big Board came to 17.80 million shares as of 10 a.m. on Wall Street. Analysts said there was little in the news to encourage buyers to chase after the market's recently rally. Interest rates were mixed to slightly higher in the credit markets this morning. Yields on long-term government bonds hovered in the 8.70 percent-8.74 percent range. The upsurge in stock prices since the end of April has been attributed largely to a downturn in interest rates, and accompanying assurances that the Federal Reserve seemed less and less likely to tighten credit. In the past few days, however, rates have levelled off, and investors apparently have settled back to await signs of their next likely move. K mart dropped \ to 34. The company reported earnings for the fiscal quarter ended May 2 of 50 cents a share, against 47 cents in the comparable period a year earlier. The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks slipped .11 to 193.44. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index was up .38 at 356.70. On Friday the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 11.80 to 2,819.91, reducing its gain for the week to 18.33 points. Advancing issues slightly outnumbered declines on the NYSE, with 745 up, 716 down and 526 unchanged. Big Board volume totaled 162.52 million shares, against 164.77 million in the previous session.
AP881103-0143 	X	James Michener will use Canadian royalties from ``Journey,'' his first novel about Canada, to establish a fund for promoting the nation's fiction writers and their work, his publisher said Thursday. Judy Brunsek of McClelland and Stewart said ``Journey,'' just arriving in bookstores, should earn $164,000 in royalties the first year. A $8,200 prize will be awarded annually to a piece of Canadian short fiction selected from about 25 to 30 small literary journals across the country. It and others chosen by a literary jury will be published as a volume each year, with the first scheduled for 1989. In an interview with the Toronto Star, Michener was quoted as saying he felt it improper to ``barge in here and publish a book and take royalties out of the country.'' ``Journey'' is set in the Klondike in 1897-99, during the gold rush, and tells of four Englishmen and an Irishman who travel to the Canadian Northwest. Ms. Brunsek said the 220-page book began as part of ``Alaska,'' one of Michener's sprawling bestsellers, but was cut to bring the length down to 868 pages. ``He gets attached to his characters and decided he had read enough to perhaps expand it,'' she said in a telephone interview. ``Because it was set in Canada, he felt very strongly about getting published in Canada.'' ``He called us one day,'' she said, laughing. ``We couldn't quite believe it. ... We of course jumped at the chance.'' Plans are for ``Journey'' to be published in the United States next year by Random House, the author's American publisher. U.S. royalties will not be affected by the Canadian arrangement. The 81-year-old author agreed to the plans for a short-fiction prize during a promotional visit to Toronto earlier this week. He and Pierre Berton, whose popular histories of northern Canada figured in the research for ``Alaska,'' made a joint appearance Monday night. Michener was quoted by the Star as saying he was ``caught up'' by the story of the five men in the portion cut from ``Alaska'' and ``became intensely interested in what would have happened to them.'' He said his next long novel will be about the Caribbean and probably will be published in 1990.
AP901109-0189 	X	Hopes for a successful Christmas shopping season all but vanished after the nation's biggest retailers said their business continued to deteriorate in October. Several companies including Sears, Roebuck & Co. and J.C. Penney Co. Inc. reported Thursday that their sales dropped from levels of a year earlier as consumers, preoccupied with concerns about the economy and the Middle East, avoided buying anything they didn't need. The disappointing October sales followed poor showings in August and September, and with Christmas less than seven weeks away, retailers and the industry analysts who track their performance expect consumers to remain frugal during the holiday season. ``They'll probaby be going in and buying the same number of items, but they're not going to pay as much ...'' said Thomas Tashjian, an analyst with Seidler Amdec Securities Inc. in Los Angeles. ``They're not going to buy $100 electronic toys for their kids, not this year.'' Analysts said shoppers will be looking harder for bargains and waiting longer for price reductions than in past years. ``They're going to be busy spending fewer dollars,'' said Daniel Barry, an analyst with Kidder Peabody & Co. Consumers cut spending as the economy weakened and after the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait raised the specter of war, inflating prices of gasoline and home heating oil. The first items crossed off shopping lists were so-called discretionary items - clothing, furniture, home appliances and other extras that are the bread and butter of many big stores. If retailers have a difficult Christmas, it could contribute to a further deterioration of the economy, since two-thirds of the nation's economic growth is generated by consumer spending. Unsold goods on store shelves could also affect manufacturing - if stores don't place new orders, factories don't need to provide as many products and could lay off workers. And a poor Christmas season could be devastating for the retailers themselves, as they depend on holiday shopping for about half their annual sales and profits. Christmas 1989 was a disappointment for many storeowners after they were forced to slash prices to attract customers. Sears, the country's largest retailer, said October results from stores open at least one year fell 0.4 percent from a year earlier, while overall sales dropped 1.2 percent. Analysts believe sales from stores open at least a year - also known as same-store or comparable store sales - provide a more accurate assessment of a retailer's performance than overall sales do. New stores tend to have extraordinarily strong sales that can skew a retailer's results. One of the hardest hit last month was Penney, which said comparable store sales fell 6.3 percent from October 1989, while overall sales dropped 4.9 percent. Limited Inc., the nation's largest specialty apparel retailer, reported comparable store sales dropped 1 percent as overall sales rose 13 percent. Apparel stores were also affected by continuing warm weather in some parts of the country. May Department Stores Co., parent of big department store chains including Lord & Taylor, Hecht's, Filene's and Foley's, said comparable store sales dropped 4.4 percent, while overall sales edged up 1.1 percent. But Wal-Mart Stores Inc., one of the biggest discount retailers, continued to outperform the rest of the retail industry, reporting comparable store sales rose 10 percent while overall sales rose 25 percent. Analysts are already predicting trouble for some stores, especially those going into the Christmas season with high inventory levels and unexpectedly poor sales. These retailers are expected to be the first ones to mark down merchandise - and see their profits evaporate. Markdowns set off a spiral of sorts as consumers, having seen one round of price reductions, wait for more merchandise to be marked down and end up forcing retailers to take further cuts. When one retailer lowers prices, it pressures others to follow. Among other reports from retailers Thursday: -Dayton Hudson Corp. said comparable store sales rose 4.1 percent, while overall sales picked up 16.7 percent. -Kmart Corp. reported a 1.3 percent sales gain at comparable stores, and an 11.2 percent rise overall. -Woolworth Corp. said comparable store sales increased 1 percent, while overall sales rose 4.2 percent. The results announced Thursday differ from the monthly retail sales report from the government. The Commerce Department's figures includes sales from supermarkets, restaurants and car dealers.
AP880406-0032 	X	With Michael Dukakis again holding the upper hand, the Democratic presidential candidates descended full force on New York today for a two-week run to the crucial April 19 primary. Dukakis picked up back-to-back wins in Colorado and Wisconsin this week over Jesse Jackson, to follow up on home turf victory in Connecticut. Before that, Jackson had piled up victories in Michigan and Illinois. Even before the polls closed in Tuesday's Wiscnsin contest, Dukakis and Tennessee Sen. Albert Gore Jr. were prospecting in New York, hoping to stake a claim on the mother lode of the primary season thus far. ``I hope it's a sign of things to come,'' Dukakis of his Wisconsin win. Jackson, too, was upbeat abut his prospects. ``We go to New York with a good campaign, a broad-based campaign, momentum, a clear messge _ a message that applies to New York,'' he said Tuesday night. At stake in the New York primary are 255 delegates. At the national convention, only California's delegation, a 336-member giant, will be larger. And that primary isn't until June 7. ``We think that if we can win New York, we're going to be in a good position to dominate the last third of the primaries,'' said Paul Bograd, Dukakis' New York campaign manager. ``But New York will be critical to that.'' ``No way you can underestimate the importance of this one,'' said John Marino, executive director of the state Democratic Committee and a political operative of Gov. Mario Cuomo. Cuomo's presence is felt in the New York primary race, as it has been to some extent in the entire campaign. Reluctant to run for president himself, Cuomo has been equally reluctant to endorse any other Democrat. Cuomo's apparent indecision has fueled speculation for months that he might want a deadlocked convention and desperate Democrats turning to him offering the nomination. Cuomo has insisted he doesn't want that, but thus far has refused to rule out accepting a convention draft. There is also a Republican primary on April 19 in New York, with 102 delegates at stake. But it is little more than a formality as Vice President George Bush rolls toward the GOP nomination. On the other hand, the Democratic primary could provide important answers, including: _Can Dukakis keep up the momentum he's regained with this week's victories in Wisconsin and Colorado _ and convince party leaders that he deserves the nomination? _Can Jackson's solid support among minority voters and the backing of several prominent New York labor leaders overcome Jewish uneasiness and produce the New York victory his campaign now needs? _Will Gore's decision to put most of his remaining eggs in the New York basket prove to be anything more than a windfall for television stations who run his paid ads? Along with Cuomo, most of the state's other major Democrats, such as New York City Mayor Edward Koch and Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan, have remained officially neutral. Recent polls among New York Democrats have Dukakis leading the field with support ranging from 37 percent to 45 percent, depending on the poll. Jackson has been consistently second at just under 30 percent while Gore and Simon have yet to crack double digits in any of the polls. Anticipating Dukakis' victory in Wisconsin, Bograd declared Tuesday evening that the campaign had become ``clearly a two-man race'' between Dukakis and Jackson. While the Dukakis camp was ready to write off Gore, who finished a distant third in Wisconsin, the Tennessee senator has been campaigning hard here for more than a week. He's also hired New York political consultant David Garth, who runs Koch's campaigns and who occasionally advises Cuomo. Gore has been courting New York's politically important Jewish community, and has been attacking Jackson and Dukakis on the issue of support for Israel. If that message has any impact it could hurt Dukakis most; Jackson's support among New York Jews is already minimal following his 1984 ``Hymietown'' gaffe. However, Dukakis' wife Kitty, who is Jewish, has been campaigning in the Jewish community. Jackson is relying on his strong minority support, coupled with a growing acceptance among white voters, to win more than the 26 percent he garnered in the New York primary four years ago. Jackson plans a big television buy in New York, a tool he hasn't used much in other states. He also has the support of influential labor leaders such as Stanley Hill, executive director of the 120,000-member New York City municipal workers union, and Jan Pierce, a top official with the Communications Workers of America. Bograd, Dukakis' New York campaign manager, says the Massachusetts governor will spend at least $1 million on his New York effort; others put it as high as $3 million. The Massachusetts governor also has the support of some of the top officials from the state's politically powerful teachers' unions.
AP880920-0099 	X	Emperor Hirohito, the world's longest reigning monarch, received three blood transfusions today and was in stable condition after vomiting blood, imperial officials said. The Imperial Household Agency and other officials did not confirm a Kyodo News Service report that the 87-year-old emperor appeared to be in critical condition this morning despite night-long treatment by a team of court physicians. Kyodo attributed its report to an unidentified person who attended a Cabinet meeting this morning. It said a pre-dawn transfusion had not stopped a hemorrhage in his digestive tract. The imperial agency said no such announcement had been made. But in briefings later for Japanese reporters, Iwao Miyao, vice grand steward of the imperial agency, said doctors had given Hirohito 1.6 pints of blood during the night, then 0.4 pints more during the morning and 0.4 pints again during the afternoon. An Imperial Household Agency official quoted Miyao as saying in a briefing at 9:30 p.m. ``I don't think the emperor's condition is becoming worse, but rather that it is stabilizing.'' ``The emperor is in stable condition. He has a slight fever and is receiving intravenous drip,'' said palace spokesman Takenari Sugawara. Prime Minister Noboru Takeshita's Cabinet was expected to approve plans Thursday to place Crown Prince Akihito, 54, in charge of state matters, Defense Agency head Kichiro Tazawa told reporters. The emperor's worsening health caused one former Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone to cut short a trip to London and return home. At least one morning newspaper, the English-language Japan Times, printed a single-page extra this afternoon. It bore the headline ``Ailing Emperor Vomits Some Blood'' and a photo of a jogger who paused to pray in front of the palace. In a briefing to palace reporters this afternoon, Miyao said the emperor would continue to receive blood and intravenous fluids, Kyodo said. Japanese news media mounted an intense watch on the imperial palace, in central Tokyo, and reported the arrivals of a stream of well-wishers, including Prime Minister Noboru Takeshita and U.S. Ambassador Mike Mansfield. The Japan Broadcasting Corp. reported that Hirohito said ``thank you'' to his son Akihito and the prince's wife, Crown Princess Michiko. The emperor's death would plunge Japan into official mourning. Hirohito has occupied the Chrysanthemum Throne since 1926 and, after renouncing his divinity after World War II, is a figurehead with the constitutional role of ``symbol of state'' but no power. Older Japanese grew up revering him as the divine descendant of the sun goddess Amaterasu and still honor him highly, while younger people tend to have less interest in the imperial family. Marine biology is the emperor's passion. Indeed, Hirohito is a widely respected authority on the subject, having written or co-authored at least 12 books on hydrozoa, or sea animals, his specialty. Late Monday, court physicians were summoned to the palace to treat the emperor, and early today Miyao told a news conference that the emperor had vomited blood _ a sign of hemorrhaging _ and the doctor had administered the first transfusion. The monarch was conscious through the procedure, Miyao said. Hirohito has been frail since an intestinal bypass operation in September 1987 but he appeared in public for his 87th birthday on April 29 and on several later occasions. He and Empress Nagako, 85, spent most of the summer at an imperial villa outside Tokyo, returning to the capital on Sept. 8. Since late summer, he has suffered from colds and fevers and a news report last week said he had lost 20 pounds of the 130 pounds he carried before his surgery.
AP900317-0066 	X	The legislators who most closely oversee America's defense budget reaped $2 million in campaign contributions last year from political action committees affiliated with the defense industry. The biggest chunks went to committee leaders and other legislators who are particularly influential on military matters, according to an Associated Press analysis of campaign receipts by members of four key congressional panels. The committees will play a major role in determining how the pro-democracy movement in Eastern Europe and improved relations with the Soviet Union are translated into Pentagon budget cuts that could have a big impact on defense contractors. Ninety-two of the 104 legislators who serve on the four panels got money from defense PACs, with the largest share going to Sen. J. Bennett Johnson, a Louisiana Democrat who sits on the Senate Appropriations defense subcommittee. Johnston received $128,000 from defense PACs whose sponsors read like a who's who of military contractors. The AP analysis covered PAC contributions to members of the defense subcommittees of the House and Senate appropriations committees, and to members of each chamber's Armed Services panel. In good times and bad, it is common practice for special interests to target their PAC contributions to legislators with influence in their fields. Banking-related PACs, for example, gave nearly $6 million in the 1987-88 election cycle to legislators on committees with jurisdiction over banking issues, according to the newsletter PACs & Lobbies. Congress for years has been debating campaign finance reforms that would limit the role of PACs in congressional races. Yet many lawmakers and PAC officials reject the contention of public interest groups that special-interest money unduly influences congressional votes. A spokesman for Johnston, Tony Garrett, said ``It makes sense that people in the defense industry would support those who favor a strong national defense and who are key players in defense policy. They also know the senator through his efforts to bring more defense industries to Louisiana.'' A prominent player in the campaign finance deliberations, Rep. Beryl Anthony, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said there is nothing wrong with accepting PAC money but that the soaring costs of campaigns have perhaps created the perception that lawmakers are too reliant on special interest money. ``Taking a legal PAC contribution is not sleazy,'' Anthony said in an interview Friday. ``The culprit is in how much money it takes to run an election.'' The 1989 PAC contributions, detailed in year-end campaign finance reports to the Federal Election Commission, cover the first half of the 1989-90 election cycle. Fund-raising generally escalates during election years, and past donors are among the first targets to be tapped. On top of PAC contributions, additional money from defense contractors is channeled to lawmakers as honoraria for speeches and other appearances. In 1987, for example, members of the four defense-related committees received $521,000 in honoraria from the top 50 defense contractors, according to the Common Cause advocacy group. Legislators also receive hundreds of thousands of dollars in contributions from labor union PACs whose members work at defense plants and from PACs for lobbying firms whose clients include major defense contractors. The $2 million figure, however, covers only donations from PACs affiliated with defense contractors. PACs affiliated with companies that would be most affected by major reductions in defense spending were among the biggest financial backers of members of the four congressional panels. General Motors Corp.'s PACs, for example, distributed nearly $140,000 last year among 75 members of the four defense-related committees, according to the AP analysis. GM's donations included those from its corporate PAC and from the PACs of its Electronic Data Systems and Hughes Aircraft subsidiaries. Not far behind was McDonnell Douglas Corp., whose two PACs gave $132,000 to 73 members of the congressional panels. Next were Textron Inc. and Lockheed Corp., whose PACs each made $103,000 in 1989 contributions to members of the four committees. Coming in just short of $100,000 in total donations to the committee members were the PACs associated with Grumman Corp., Northrop Corp. and Raytheon Co. Raytheon's totals include donations by the PAC of its Beech Aircraft subsidiary. PACs for Martin Marietta Corp., Rockwell International Corp., United Technologies Corp., Boeing Co., General Dynamics Corp., LTV Corp. and Westinghouse Electric Corp. contributed between $50,000 and $90,000 each to members of the defense-related congressional panels. While the chairmen and ranking Republicans of the congressional committees generally were among the biggest recipients of defense-industry PAC money, there was one major exception last year. Sen. Daniel Inouye, D-Hawaii, chairman of the Senate defense appropriations panel, received just $1,000 in defense-industry PAC money; $2,150 in total PAC donations. Inouye, who is not up for re-election until 1992, received $52,000 in defense PAC money during the 1985-86 election cycle. The ranking Republican on that same panel, Alaska Sen. Ted Stevens, reported defense-industry PAC contributions of $112,500 in 1989 and total PAC contributions of $497,000. He is heavily favored for re-election this year. The chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Democrat Sam Nunn of Georgia, received more than $489,000 from PACs in 1989, of which $88,000 came from the defense industry. The panel's ranking Republican, John Warner of Virginia, received $395,000 from PACs, $86,000 of it from the defense industry. Other big recipients of defense PAC money included: _Rep. John P. Murtha, D-Pa., chairman of the House defense appropriations subcommittee. He received $150,000 from PACs last year, $55,500 of it from the defense industry. _Rep. Joseph M. McDade of Pennsylvania, ranking Republican on the same panel. He raised $79,000 from PACs, $36,000 of it from the defense industry. McDade, who is under FBI investigation for his relationship with a now-defunct defense contractor, used all of his 1989 campaign contributions to pay legal fees. _Rep. Les Aspin, D-Wis., chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. Aspin received $135,000 from PACs last year, of which $41,000 came from the defense industry. _Rep. William L. Dickinson of Alabama, senior Republican on the Armed Services Committee. Dickinson received $52,000 last year from defense-industry PACs, representing 71 percent of his $72,000 in total PAC receipts.
AP900312-0101 	X	A red oak tree a few miles down the road from Terry A. Anderson's hometown was just a sapling when Monica Stocum tied a yellow ribbon around it soon after he was abducted in Lebanon on March 16, 1985. Now, the tree has grown enough to burst the ribbon, engulfing parts of it in the tree's new growth. The one-time sapling will soon be big enough to shelter a picnic. ``My God, a tree grows slowly and look at how it has grown,'' Stocum said. Anderson is still a hostage, held captive longer than any other Westerner in Lebanon. But in this town of about 17,000 people, Stocum and hundreds like her are keeping his memory alive, even though they have never met him. An informal group organizes ceremonies to commemorate Anderson's birthdays and the anniversaries of his kidnapping. On Friday, the fifth anniversary of his abduction from the streets of Beirut, they will attend services and fast for 24 hours as a gesture of spirituality and support. Hometown solidarity and admiration for the efforts of Anderson's sister, Peggy Say, to free all the Western hostages in Lebanon have spurred those efforts, said Anne Zickl, a member of the group. ``Terry Anderson graduated from Batavia High School. So did my mother and father and I. So did my four kids. So you have a connection right there,'' said Mrs. Zickl. ``Plus, I think Americans don't like injustice.'' Stocum moved to nearby Le Roy 15 years after Anderson left the area, but said the hometown tie was important to her as well. ``I probably wouldn't know him if I fell over him in the street, even with the pictures,'' she said. ``It just seems like we should be more alert because he's one of us.'' Anderson left Batavia, in dairy country 40 miles east of Buffalo, in 1965 to join the Marines. He went on to a career in journalism that took him, as chief Middle East correspondent for The Associated Press, to Lebanon. His father, Glenn R. Anderson, and brother, Glenn Richard Jr., remained here, and after Terry was kidnapped Say moved back to be with them, said Penny Anderson, a sister-in-law. The father and brother have since died. ``She was always the strong one of the family,'' Mrs. Anderson said. Since then, Say has been the most persistent and outspoken advocate of her brother's cause. Her efforts drew admiration and offers of help locally, from longtime friends like Marsha Barton and strangers such as Mrs. Zickl. They now form a support team for Say, who has moved to Kentucky but continues to travel the world to press for her brother's freedom. Working from Mrs. Zickl's dining room _ her family has not eaten there in 1{ years _ they publish newsletters, collect Valentine's Day and Christmas cards for Anderson and field inquiries from reporters from around the world. ``We just function here to give Peggy as much support as we can, because Peggy is the one who can do the most for the hostages,'' Mrs. Zickl said. There have been more than enough dashed hopes, and as they plan for the fifth anniversary of Anderson's capture, they find themselves trying to stifle excitement over Iran's recently softened stance on the hostage issue. ``My head is saying, `Now, don't get excited. We've heard all this before,''' Mrs. Anderson said. ``My heart says he's coming home. I woke up Monday morning absolutely positive he's coming home.'' Friday's fast, they hope, will give the kidnappers one more nudge toward that goal. ``I think that people in other countries find Americans very arrogant and very self-indulgent,'' Mrs. Zickl said. ``For them to know that Americans are fasting, not on their own behalf but for peace and freedom in the Middle East, I think they'll find that very moving.''
AP880803-0280 	X	Stock prices hovered in a narrow range today in a sluggish summer session. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials, down about 8 points in early trading, was up .89 at 2,132.11 by 2 p.m. on Wall Street. Gainers and losers ran about even in the overall tally of New York Stock Exchange-listed issues, with 692 up, 688 down and 485 unchanged. Volume on the Big Board came to 153.59 million shares with two hours to go. Nearly half of that activity was concentrated in a single issue _ American Electric Power, unchanged at 28}. Analysts said the heavy trading in the stock stemmed from trading strategies focused on the company's impending dividend. Otherwise, analysts said the market was still beset by concerns that strong economic growth would prompt further moves by the Federal Reserve to restrain inflation. The Labor Department's monthly report Friday on the employment situation for July is expected to show continuing robust gains in payroll employment In the credit markets today, prices of long-term government bonds, which move in the opposite direction from interest rates, declined slightly. Insilco jumped 6\ to 27{ on word that the company's management is considering a buyout proposal. Texaco, trading ex-dividend, rose } to 47|, and Texaco Canada added [ to 30~ on the American Stock Exchange. On Tuesday Texaco said its 78 percent stake in Texaco Canada was for sale. The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks gained .25 to 153.79. At the Amex, the market value index was down .34 at 306.16.
AP881014-0034 	X	A veteran jockey who had planned to retire at the end of the year was killed at Belmont Park when his mount broke a leg and the man fell to the track, where he was kicked in the face by another horse. Mike Venezia, the rider of more than 2,000 winners in more than 21,000 races since 1964, died in the fifth race on Thursday's card, officials said. Robbie Davis, the rider of the other horse, was taken to a hospital for treatment of shock. Venezia's mount, a 3-year-old gelding named Mr. Walter K., was humanely killed. Venezia, 43, was the first jockey killed at a New York Racing Association track since March 29, 1982, when Amado Credidio died after he was thrown over the top of a horse onto the ground and into the path of several other horses in a race at Aqueduct. Venezia's mount broke his right foreleg going down the backstretch of a 1 1-16 mile allowance race. Venezia attempted to pull up the gelding, then went off the horse to his left and fell crosswise on the track, directly in the path of the other horse, Drums in the Night. ``I think he was dead when the (ambulance) technician got to him,'' Dr. Leo Skolnik, the examining NYRA physician, said. ``He was apparently kicked in the face. He had no pulse, no respiration and his pupils were dilated and fixed. ``I don't see how a fall to the ground could have sustained this kind of injury.'' The last four races of Thursday's card were canceled. Racing was to resume today and a memorial service was to be held for Venezia, who had planned to retire at the end of this year.
AP901204-0154 	X	The bloodiest of four army uprisings in four years was also the shortest, and President Menem's decisive management of the crisis may strengthen his government. Monday's uprising, two days before President Bush's scheduled visit, was quickly crushed. Menem said Tuesday the rebel leaders will be tried by military court and face the death penalty if found guilty. Late Monday, after the rebels had filed out of the last of the buildings they had seized before dawn, Menem told a news conference that ``my pulse isn't going to tremble'' if military officers who had rebelled repeatedly - and killed people in the proces - forfeit their lives. The unofficial death toll in the uprising rose Tuesday to 14 when a soldier died from wounds suffered in putting down the insurrection. Unofficial tallies put the number of wounded at nearly 60 and the arrested at more than 400. The government did not disclose its figures on casualties and arrests. Menem and Defense Minister Humberto Romero signed a decree that legally separated the rebel leaders from their followers. While the leaders could face the death penalty, the followers face charges in civil court, where the worst punishment is life in prison. Menem ``is convinced the death penalty should be applied to end these happenings,'' said Raul Granillo Ocampo, the president's legal adviser. That attitude found support in this capital city of 10 million, whose residents saw their democracy threatened by the uprising. In quelling it, air force planes bombed tanks on public roads and a bridge was dynamited. Rebels fired at and hit Vice President Eduardo Duhalde's helicopter. On Tuesday, rebels who hid overnight at a rural Buenos Aires Province farm gave themselves up, along with three tanks they had seized. Argentina's two biggest political groups, the governing Perronist Party and the Civic Radical Union, issued a statement with 23 other parties saying the government should punish the rebels ``with severity.'' The rebels had demanded a shakeup of the military high command and a bigger military budget. Observers said they also sought to embarrass Menem by forcing Bush to cancel a visit to Argentina on Wednesday. Bush was in Uruguay on Tuesday. Menem refused to concede a single point, and even while rebels still held the army headquarters, Bush said he would arrive on schedule. Menem was sworn in 17 months ago amid hyperinflation, recession, food riots and military unrest. He seemed to have strengthened his government by choosing to fight the rebels instead of negotiating as former President Raul Alfonsin did on three occasions. It did not escape Argentines' notice that under Menem, the air force and navy for the first time helped put down an army rebellion. So no one would doubt that rebels surrendered unconditionally, they were ordered to walk out with their hands behind their necks and shoeless, a gesture meant to humiliate them. The rebels ``thought the president would be frightened and give in to their pressures,'' and become ``their puppet,'' said Adelina Dalesio de Viola, a national deputy with the opposition Union of the Democratic Center. ``But at every moment, Menem showed himself to be very firm,'' she said. Granillo Ocampo, Menem's aide, said the jailed leader of a December 1988 revolt, retired Col. Mohamed Ali Seineldin, admitted he played a role in the rebellion. He said Seineldin asked for ``a pistol with one bullet,'' presumably to kill himself, but authorities refused. Several other current and former officers under arrest sided with Seineldin or cashiered Lt. Col. Aldo Rico during the April 1987 and January 1988 military uprisings. Late Tuesday, Menem canceled the state-of-siege decree. Menem's brother, Eduardo Menem, who is president of the Senate, claimed Tuesday night the rebels intended to assassinate key political figures. The list included the president, at least one Cabinet minister and the leader of the ruling Peronist party bloc in Congress, Eduardo Menem told the independent news agency Noticias Argentina. He cited state intelligence agency information, but offered no proof to support his claim.
AP880829-0065 	X	The dollar rose in quiet European trading this morning, boosted by some large buy orders in a market thinned by a British bank holiday, foreign exchange dealers said. Gold rose slightly in Zurich. ``The market is really dead because London is absent,'' said one trader in Rome. In Tokyo, where trading ends as Europe's business day begins, the dollar gained sharply, closing up 0.70 yen at 134.20 yen. Later, in Europe, it was quoted at 134.25 yen. Foreign exchange dealers attributed the dollar's strong performance in Tokyo to loss-cutting and said orders concentrated there because other major markets were closed. Hong Kong's financial institutions were also closed today for a national holiday. ``Those who had sold the dollar at around 133.80 yen bought it back above the 134-yen level today,'' said a dealer at a U.S. bank's Tokyo office. ``That caused the dollar to gain sharply.'' Other dollar rates in Europe at midmorning, compared with late Friday's London rates: _1.8663 West German marks, up from 1.8565 _1.5760 Swiss francs, up from 1.5655 _6.3372 French francs, up from 6.3010 _2.1077 Dutch guilders, up from 2.0970 _1,386.25 Italian lire, down from 1,380.50 _1.2375 Canadian dollars, up from 1.23725 In Europe, the dollar made solid gains against the British pound. One pound cost $1.6855, compared with $1.7025 in London late Friday. The London bullion markets were closed for the holiday, but in Zurich the bid price for gold was $432.35, up slightly from $432.00 bid late Friday.
AP880802-0274 	X	Here are the companies known to be conducting investigations of possibly fraudulent stock trading based on advance leaks of Business Week magazine articles and any actions they have taken involving employees: _McGraw-Hill Inc., New York, publisher of Business Week: no employee dismissals or suspensions. _R.R. Donnelley & Sons Co., Chicago, printer of Business Week: one employee dismissed at Old Saybrook, Conn., plant and one employee suspended at Torrance, Calif., plant. _Merrill Lynch & Co., New York, investment firm: one broker dismissed in New London, Conn., office. _Prudential-Bache Securities Inc., New York, investment firm: one broker dismissed in Anaheim, Calif., office. _Advest Inc., Hartford, Conn., investment firm: one broker suspended in New London, Conn., office. _Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc., New York, investment firm: disclosure that three former brokers in Hartford, Conn., office of E.F. Hutton Group Inc. may have traded on leaked articles before Hutton was acquired. _PaineWebber Inc., New York, investment firm: disclosure that it had hired at least two of the former Hutton brokers. _Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co., New York, investment firm: no action against employees. _Integrated Resources Inc., New York, financial services firm: no action against employees. _Quick & Reilly Group Inc., New York, discount brokerage: no action against employees. _Charles Schwab & Co., San Francisco, discount brokerage: no action against employees.
AP881216-0053 	X	Bloodstains on a pillowcase and exercise bar found in Joel Steinberg's apartment came from his former lover, an FBI expert testified at Steinberg's trial on charges he beat his illegally adopted 6-year-old daughter to death. Hedda Nussbaum, who lived with Steinberg for 12 years, has testified that Steinberg beat her on the head and legs with the bar. FBI serologist Robert J. Grispino testified Thursday that was ``100 percent'' certain the bloodstains were not from Steinberg, Steinberg's daughter, Lisa; or Steinberg's illegally adopted son, Mitchell, who has since been returned to his natural mother. Grispino's testimony came Thursday afternoon after the morning session was canceled because judge Harold Rothwax suffered two broken wrists when he was hit by a car as he rode his bicycle to work. Rothwax's wrists were put in casts. When the 58-year-old judge returned to the courtroom, he followed doctors' orders to keep his arms elevated by sitting with his elbows on the desk and hands in front of his face. As the session proceeded, his clerk had to put his glasses on for him and turn pages for him. ``I regret being delayed today,'' he told jurors at the end of the day. ``I'm going to try to come down (to court) safely tomorrow. You try to come down safely, too.'' Lisa's death last year in an affluent, well-educated household shocked many New Yorkers and led to a re-examination of the duty and ability of neighbors, teachers and social workers to recognize and report evidence of child abuse.
AP900102-0014 	X	When Ron Thompson sat down for lunch on New Year's Eve, he was the grandfather of five. At breakfast Monday, he was a grandfather of nine. Three of Thompson's daughters _ Mary Tolson, Joan Thompson and Carol Thompson _ gave birth to four boys at Seton Medical Center late Sunday and early Monday. When Ms. Tolson went into labor Sunday, she asked her 19-year-old sister Joan, who was in the ninth month of her pregnancy, to drive her to the hospital. After about five hours, Ms. Tolson, 28, gave birth at 2:40 p.m. to Shane Taylor Tolson, who weighed 7 pounds 9 ounces. At Ms. Tolson's delivery, Dr. Chris Seeker said Joan told him, ``You will probably be seeing me, too.'' Sure enough, seven hours later Joan was hustled to Seton by sister Carol. Joan gave birth to Jeremy Andrew Thompson Armendariz at 12:01 a.m. He weighed 6 pounds 10 ounces. Carol, 24, then went into labor and gave birth to twin boys just before 3 a.m. The mothers and four boys spent New Year's Day in good condition. ``This beats partying,'' Joan said. ``At least I have a (sense of) relief and not a headache.''
AP881111-0210 	X	A Navy anti-submarine helicopter crashed while preparing to land on a frigate in the North Arabian Sea and its three crewmen were presumed dead, officials announced Friday. The SH-2F helicopter was returning to the USS Barbey at the end of a dawn flight and crashed on approach, said Ken Mitchell, spokesman for North Island Naval Air Station. The Barbey is based at San Diego. The crash occurred about 7 p.m. PST Thursday, Mitchell said. Lost and presumed dead were Lt. Cmdr. Gerald C. Pelz, 37, of Coronado, Calif., Lt. j.g. Gerald T. Ramsdell, age unknown, of Ridgewood, N.J., and the anti-submarine warfare operator, Petty Officer 3rd Class William E. Martinie, 24, of Peoria, Ill. Helicopters from the aircraft carrier USS Nimitz, 70 miles away, and boats from the Barbey and USS California unsuccessfully searched for survivors. The craft was part of Helicopter Anti-Submarine Squadron Light 33.
